when i arrived my room was given to someone else . i was given another room . i had to constantly ask the maid for things that should have been in the bathroom already . to top it off i flew into UNknown and then took a taxi . when i checked my hotel bill on the plane . i noticed that they had charge me $ 75 for parking ! i didn't even have a car ? this was in may . we are now in august and i am still trying to recuperate my money . the area was pretty noisy when it was time to get some shut eye . ( constant sirens from fire trucks and ambulances ) i do not recommend this hotel
we stayed at the UNknown for a girl's weekend which also happened to be during fell's point fun festival . the location of the hotel was wonderful , very convenient to all the activities . everything is in walking distance . the hotel itself was very clean and well maintained . the staff was exceptional ( especially those at the front desk ) . we had no issues with our room , reservations , getting assistance with our vehicle , etc . although we didn't need access to it , our car was in a parking garage a few blocks away which wasn't fun when we were checking out and dragging all our luggage through the streets of fell's point , but that was a minor inconvenience .
i cannot say enough . this hotel is amazing . from the first phone call to the moment we picked up our bags ; the staff went above and beyond . rooms perfect and beautiful . bed bugs are a big issue in nyc and they were fully prepped and ensured that not one room would have any . front desk staff was the best part , especially the front desk manager . she runs it perfectly , can i hire you ? : ) huge shout out up blond female w . accent that works front desk in evenings ( oct . 21 - 22 ) i will be stating with UNknown upon all my next visits to the big apple ! thank you for everything !
this embassy suites is very nice , but not quite as nice as some others where i have stayed . the furniture , carpeting , etc . was a little worn . bathroom was small but clean . for over $ 300 a night ( including parking ) it was a little expensive for what you get , but that is the price you pay in dc . i do have to say that the staff members were wonderful , very helfpul and friendly . and the breakfast was amazing - anything you could possibly want , and served in a beautiful atrium area . free internet in the rooms for hhonors members was also a bonus . you will not be disappointed if you stay here .
i stayed at the hotel for a technology conference for a week . prior to going i UNknown up for their " select guest " program . i was looking forward to using the wireless internet in my room . i believe something to the effect of requesting " strong internet signal " was printed on my room reservation ticket upon check in . however much to my disappointment i spent the week suffering with spotty internet connectivity . i know other guests who actually requested to move rooms ( in search of a stronger signal ) . i've heard from those guests that if you request to be put in their " new " wing of the hotel then you will have a good internet signal .
our visit began with our arrival at the hotel , and chris , the doorman greeting us with a smile . on the inside of the door , we were offered delicious champagne and welcomed to what turned out to be an absolute gem . this hotel was sweet in every sense of the word . beautifully appointed with details that you don't typically see , fantastic beds ( UNknown ) and gorgeously laid out space . this was the perfect hotel for us . right off of central park and madison avenue . i would absolutely want to stay here again and would highly recommend the surrey if you have high expectations and want something above the rest . make sure you see the rooftop garden !
we only stayed one night here but the staff and the accommodations set the mood for our cruise through the panama canal . upon our arrival , we had just come off a long flight and were tired . the check - in staff were very courteous and our reservations lived up to be more than expected for a 3 . 5 star rating when we researched it . i am not sure what other critics found so negative but our room was clean , well laid out and the beds were comfortable . there are nice grounds to walk around and you are only a short walk to the uss iowa and the waterfront . the restaurant served very good food with a lot of variety .
this is a smaller boutique style hotel with character . this was our second stay at this locations so that is a good sign ; 0 ) located in the buisness district . the staff is friendly , especially love the kitchen staff . the food was delicious . i very much enjoyed the roof top pool and hot tub , the spa is also UNknown the roof top however you cant just walk in it is by appointment only . sometimes the roof closes for special events so check into that . rooms are charming and roomy . we enjoyed shopping , and a tour of the city . the front dest is helpful will finding hot spots and destinations . i would go back again .
spent one night in this rather swank hotel in boston's back bay area . 3 minute walk from the prudential center and copley place . 15 minute walk to fenway park . room was large and very comfortable . had a bose ipod dock for charging / listening to your ipod . service was very accommodating and eager to please . had a decent view of the charles river from the 10th floor . fitness center was nice . adjoining restaurant solas , accessible from the inside the hotel as well as boylston st . , was very good . did not eat at city table ( the restaurant in the hotel ) . i was very comfortable in this hotel and whole - heartedly recommend it .
my wife and i stayed at the whitehall hotel for the 3 nights immediately following labor day weekend this year and could not have been more pleased . the location is amazing ( 1 / 2 block from hancock tower , 1 block from water tower , 1 block from rush st . , 3 blocks from red line . ) , the price was incredible , the staff was pleasant and helpful and the restaurants and bar are comfortable and offer good food and drinks at affordable prices . of special note is the old lounge - felt like having drinks in a big . , comfy living room - perfect for unwinding after running around chicago all day . we will definitely stay here again !
i stayed here overnight while on business . checkin was smooth and easy . my room was on the backside of the hotel and away from the elevators . it was well appointed with a desk , casual chair , large sized flat screen tv and a king bed . the bed had very nice comfortable linens . bathroom was very clean with a kohler showerhead and an ample supply of towels . room was quiet at night and early morning which can be a challenge in ny . doormen are quick to get cabs and helpful with bags . this hotel lobby was a zoo when i returned from dinner as it looked like a bus tour had booked the hotel . hopefully not the norm .
the room was smelly and even after spraying air freshner it still smelled . when i asked to put something on the air conditioner , they didn't have anything . staff is not very cordial . over the breakfast , i asked for a tray and they didn't have one and the lady in the kitchen that i asked for it , she didn't even say sorry or anything . just said " we don't have one " . very pricey and the breakfast was not at all good . i don't know what they are charging for . even the location is not as good as they say . the pictures on trip advisor were not from this hotel . i will never stay here again .
stayed here overnight to do some business in chicago . the amalfi is a very pleasant place to stay . the staff are very friendly and the ambiance is trendy but not bizarre as one sometimes find in " boutique " hotels . my room was large and pretty quiet . the fitness center is large and fairly well equipped . the evening reception and free breakfast on each floor are very good amenities . wifi is free and fast . the location is good , with downtown , michigan avenue shopping etc a few blocks away . you can take the cta from ohare to the clark / lake stop , walk a few blocks , and you're there . i would definitely stay there again .
we have now stayed at the palomar twice while in dallas . it is deliciously located across central freeway from s . m . u . , la UNknown restaurant , starbucks , and many other nice restaurants and shopping areas . the palomar is tastefully decorated and has a gorgeous infinity pool with poolside sandwiches and drinks brought to your chaise lounge upon request . both times we stayed here , our room was upgraded to a larger room . the furnishings were beautiful , and the room immaculate . hotel service was very friendly . our room was quiet and restful . great UNknown in the room to help orient you to the area . interesting mini - bar . will definitely stay here again .
i had stayed in this hotel previously in 1991 and enjoyed the location and easy access to the areas of the city we were visiting - but what a scruffy , run - down establishment it has now become . there is a UNknown smell in the lobby area and the corridors and rooms are delapidated and showing their age . chipped paint , peeling wall - paper and frayed carpets were a feature of our room along with a major infestation of bed - bugs which bit me extensively ! they did agree the room would be fumigated following my complaint but they did not appear surprised to hear about the additional room occupants ! if you know what is good for you - stay away !
we stayed just one night , a friday , at the w hotel washington . we were extremely impressed with the service , the efficiency of check - in , and the friendly nature of all the staff . our room was very chic , the bed was super comfortable , and very peaceful . we had reserved a table at pov for drinks following dinner elsewhere ( cafe UNknown - superb ! ) , and had a great , fun time ! the manager brought us some favorite special UNknown , " on the house " , and the views , service , and people - watching were great fun . we will definitely go back for a night on the town again . great hotel .
while the refurbished lobby , restaurants and bars are still elegant and luxurious , the standard rooms are far more reminiscent of a decrepit dorm room . chipped paint , rusting fixtures , moldy grout and an utter lack of amenities . the assorted selections of soaps and shampoos , apparently borrowed from other hotels , is not critical , but is indicative of the UNknown state of the biltmore . waking up to find a mixture of cold to luke warm water UNknown out of the five foot high showerhead only reinforced an already negative impression . the staff are certainly accomodating and room service was adequate , but i would wait until a complete renovation of the rooms before ever staying at the biltmore again .
this was our first visit to shelter island . we really enjoyed our stay at the bay club and marina . the relaxation of the area is wonderful ! this hotel is located about 15 mins from the airport in a safe and beautiful area . the bay club is a small hotel only 2 floors , but it is huge on service . we can not say enough how awesome the staff is . UNknown , you rock ! the front desk , the breakfast wait staff all amazing ! housekeeping always aiming to please . the bay club management is very blessed to have this amazing dedicated staff . we thank all of you for a very enjoyable stay . we hope to visit again .
staff , breakfast , location , everything is great about this place . transit stops right outside the front door to take you downtown . i spent 5 days here with my daughter , just UNknown around seattle , shopping , dining , etc . , and we both agreed we would definitely come back to this hotel if we're in the area again . the waterfront is right across the street , a couple of nice ( expensive , though ) restaurant / bars with outdoor waterfront dining . i guess the one negative is that they don't have a dedicated airport shuttle service . oh , if you go to seattle , be sure to visit the fremont neighborhood for great vintage & antique shopping !
i have never been to memphis and just came from nashville where we had stayed at the service focused hotel the UNknown . check in was unorganized , with long lines . the room was tasteful but dated . hated the bedding . general lack of of customer first attitude . bellman would come into elevators with the luggage carts when it was already occupied by hotel guests . i will say that the staff in the gift shop were very nice . the duck walk is a good draw but at twice a day and the fact that there are more non - guest and kids running around really detracts from the elegance of the hotel . too many add on charges that bring no value .
this hotel has a fantastic location , right in the heart of downtown walking distance to all attractions and the best restaurants and bars . despite being on the busy michigan avenue the room was very quiet and being at the front had a great view . the room was unbelievably big for a city centre hotel with a good size bathroom , a bedroom , and a large lounge with kitchenette sofa and desk . they also all have washer / dryers which is a great touch . the staff are all very friendly and helpful . breakfast is included and is quite passable . the UNknown thing about this hotel though is the price you get all this for , it is an absolute bargain .
stayed in june 2011 for a few nights during a business trip . great location next to grand central . great value for nyc but rooms and hallways are in need of major updates . bathroom is very small and the cleanliness was lost on the fact that the tiles and fixtures were so outdated . lighting was bad and relied on lots of lamps which was frustrating . nice gift shop in lobby . bed was comfortable as were pillows . did not eat or drink at hotel but lobby bar seemed to be constantly full . lots of tourists - especially foreign tourists . would recommend if looking for a centrally located room while visiting the city but would not recommend for a business trip .
my wife and i stayed at the pearl over the independence day weekend . we were thoroughly impressed with all elements of our room , and the hotel in general . it is short on a couple of amenities such as a restaurant on the property . that said , you are in midtown ! if you are eating in the hotel there is something wrong with you ; ) the rooms are very modern and nicely appointed . one of the biggest conveniences was a large bar fridge that was very convenient for drinks and snacks . found the front desk and concierge to be very friendly and helpful . room value was great . we would definitely stay again on our next stay in nyc .
it's UNknown out , raining , and the room air conditioners are off ? UNknown cited a state law , yet the lobby is air conditioned . the rooms ( $ 150 two years ago ) are now $ 280 / nt . i sort of expected air conditioning . i also believe this hi is showing it's age since my last visit and review a few years ago . the common areas like hallways , etc . are missing baseboards , carpet is pretty dirty , and the elevators were on the fritz yesterday . the bathrooms are darkly lit , but you still can't beat the location . regardless , i'll be looking for another $ 280 / nt hotel when i return next month .
just to let you know that our recent trip to la to be on the tv show " dancing with the stars " was made complete by our outstanding 3 night stay at the custom hotel . nothing was too difficult for the staff . ryan ( days ) and UNknown ( night ) were extremely helpful with wake up calls , check in / out , shuttle to nearby airport , directions and overall questions / requests . the front desk manager , daniel was most pleasant and accomodating helping us book tours for the remaining days of our stay . customer satisfaction is clearly a priority at the custom hotel and i look forward to staying there on future visits to california ! mrs . UNknown
only stayed one night , but this hotel seemed to have all the usual amenities of a " business " class hotel . as is the case with most downtown , big hotels , many items are extra ( breakfast , internet service , parking ) . the gym seemed like it had a lot , and there is a rooftop - style pool . the front desk staff was helpful , if not exceptional . one bellman actually offered to help check in guests using their automated kiosk . they have another for easily printing boarding passes . the business center was under contruction , and is currently very small . the guest rooms are standard , with typical items . so , overall just fine .
i recently attended a conference at this hotel ; three nights were the conference and i picked up a fourth out of my own pocket . while i experienced no problems , at $ 200 / night + nearly $ 30 / day for parking , i expect more . the rooms are nice sized , amenties good , and the views to the harbor are great . the bedding was comfortable and air was unobtrusive . i also appreciated having an in - room safe for storage . as for the cleanliness , the bed and bathroom were fine , i just marked it down as the carpet and couches had some stains / spots - and just generally looked like they needed a good cleaning .
we stayed at this hotel dec 2011 and had a very nice experience . the hotel is brand new , very clean , everything works and the staff is very friendly . the king suite was very big with microwave , fridge and a big flat screen tv ! the great price included a breakfast with so much to choose from , a fitness center and even wash machines for guests to use . the pool looks very nice but it was a little to cold to try it this time . we will be back ! oh , they even have a program to sign up for to get free nights for staying at laquintas . this hotel chain sure has changed over the past years !
we stayed in november 2011 . i was not disappointed with this hotel . the customer service we received from concierge , guest services , valet and housekeeping was superb . we felt very welcome here . i love the fact that my doggies are " greeted " . kinda UNknown to me . you have to walk the dogs at the side of the building to relieve themselves . it isn't too far . i used a aaa discount . valet not included with this one though . it ended to be almost $ 180 / night . most restaurants and bars a just a few minutes walk away . great location that you do not have to drive home after having a couple of drinks .
if you are like me , staying in the larger , more widely known " chain " hotels is done with every trip . it's easier plus you get the " points . " well , no longer will that happen in san diego . a friend and i stayed at the pearl and found the experience to be exceptional . attention to detail , a friendly staff , and the coolest environment yet made the bigger chain hotels a thing of the past when visiting san diego . the pearl was a great " find . " i will be back . so , be brave . try the pearl and leave the big hotels behind . you , like i , will be glad did .
we visited baltimore to take our children to the aquarium . this hotel was perfectly located and convenient to all major area attractions in the inner harbor . the staff was very friendly from the front desk staff , bellman , restaurant staff and housekeeping . the rooms were nicely appointed and spacious enough for a family of 4 . ask for a corner room as they are extra spacious ! the only issue we saw but didn't necessarily affect us was that housekeeping left behind a previous guest's credit card receipt with the numbers exposed . my wife and i destroyed it immediately to UNknown the other guests information . be careful with your receipts and housekeeping should pay a little more attention to the details .
business conference held here december 7th - 9th . easy access from ih 35 . lobby and atrium were stunning . however once you get past this area it's all average . rooms dated but well kept . ac and heating unit extremely noisy which made watching television difficult . you had to have the volume up to hear over the noise from the unit . the hotel staff , however , were very pleasant and accommodating . the restaurant staff were also extremely courteous and accommodating and the food was good ; not overpriced . very limited restaurants nearby but several within 3 - 5 mile radius . overall a good stay but would not be my first choice . wired internet service did not work .
*** located just one city block away from inner harbor . the staff at this hotel makes this the hidden gem in the city . we showed up in baltimore on saturday with no reservation . all the hotels in the city had been sold out due to the ny yankees playing . courtney , jada and becky were able to pull off some harbor magic to free up a room . thanks for all your help . the overnight front desk manager ( tad ) was a true gentleman . there was one little problem that we had experienced with the room and i'm sure the front desk crew will never forget this one . the management should know that they handled it like pros . ***
i can only believe that the hotel management are posting all the good reviews . my company requires all its employees to stay at this hotel when in town and without exception we all say it's dreadful and it's about to be changed . the rooms are tiny and worn out . beds and furniture are falling apart . there is no room service during the day . rooms are regularly not ready . staff are badly trained . the streets are dangerous , certainly too risky to walk to union square in anything other than bright daylight . most rooms are incredibly noisy as the windows are single glazed . prostitutes are known to frequent the hotel lobby . enough ? oh , and it's cheap .
the reviews of this hotel before my trip made it seem like it would be just an average experience . i thought it was great . the room was large and nice . i was on a higher floor so i did not hear any of the street noise despite being right next to the highway . the breakfast goes above and beyond in my opinion for a meal included in your room rate . you can walk to shops downtown but it is not just a couple of blocks away . the hotel shuttle is super convenient and takes you downtown and also to the space needle and they will come pick you up as well . i thought it was definitely worth what they charge .
the pictures on the website do not lie . the great reviews previously posted do not lie . hotel newton is awesome value for a great price , all wrapped up in a great package in a wonderful location ! we booked with the newton after reading reviews on tripadvisor and , even before we got there , the service we got from the manager was above and beyond . we were given an even better room than we asked for , and couldn't believe our luck . besides the terrific room , there was a subway station nearly on our doorstep , everything we needed on the same street including a fabulous 24 hr . hotel . thanks for making new york even better for us !
i stayed at the hilton garden inn in houston for a few days on a business trip . it is conveniently located close to the galleria and other prime areas of the city with easy access to major freeways . of all the hotels i have stayed at in houston this one in particular is the best UNknown ! the front desk staff and hotel staff were very helpful and pleasant . they were very prompt with checking me in , and i made my way to a very neat and clean room . room service was prompt , and the food here is delicious ! i had a very comfortable stay here and would recommend to anyone looking for a great place to stay in houston !
this hotel has big rooms with big comfy beds , ideal location for site seeing , walking distance of grand central station , the empire state building , the chrysler and times square and with grand central on your doorstep anywhere else is just a subway ride away ! the only negative was no tea / coffee making facilities , but we solved that problem when we discovered a fab little diner on the first morning - scotty's , which is opposite the hotel on lexington avenue ! we were hardly in the hotel and didn't try the bar or restaurant . the rooms have free safety deposits box , shampoo etc there's a mini bar ( charged ) and it was kept clean . no complaints !
we go to the zaza every year for valentine's day weekend . consistently , this is one of our favorite hotels in the world . the hotel has such a great feel about it - very welcoming , beautifully decorated , totally different , and an exciting aura all around the property . the staff is very friendly ( especially scott , ryan , and keith ) - the food in the dragonfly bar is reasonably priced and fabulous ! we booked the notorious suite - see pix - and thought it is roomy , comfy , cozy , quiet , and very gorgeous . we wished for a newspaper , and on time room service , but other than that , our stay was flawlessly perfect !
we decided to try a different part of dc on this visit , having stayed on the south west side the last couple of times . we picked this hotel as it in in a semi - suburban area . the metro is convenient and the area is clean and tidy with shops and restaurants close . we were very happy with the hotel . it is clean , smells fresh and the staff were extremely friendly , polite and helpful . can't fault them . we struggled a little to UNknown the car in the car park - our fault for choosing a UNknown , tho . all in all , a good place to stay . and bless them for having hair dryers and safes !
i've stayed at the marriott indy east every week for the past 13 - months . the location is very convenient to downtown ( quick 10 - 15 minute drive or cab ride ) and to locations north ( 10 - 15 minutes to fishers ) . the staff is dedicated to taking care of their guests and always ensure you're happy and feeling comfortable . they also recently built a new beautiful lobby , restaurant , bar , wine room , and two - three new huge conference rooms . whether you're traveling on business , pleasure , or looking for a spot to hold a meeting , conference , or event , the marriott indy east offers it all ! i highly recommend this hotel .
this particular sheraton , by new york standards , is very basic . it has everything you would expect from a sheraton - clean , comfortable and good service , but it lacks some of the nice touches of other sheraton's i have stayed at . i was there for business and for this purpose it was great . good fast internet connection and a spacious desk and comfortable bed . breakfast was a bit of a disappointment with a limited buffet selection but it was more than adequate . if you want to stay in the heart of new york and reliable comfort then this is a great choice . canal street can be bit dodgy at times but you're never far away from the action .
we have stayed here before but it has been a few years . service has deteriorated a great deal . checked in thursday evening . front desk could not change 2 dollar bills for vending machine purchase . friday we left the room at 1 . 30 and put the please make up room sign . returned at 10pm to an unmade room . called the desk who sent up a very grumpy housekeeper with an UNknown of towels . she rolled her eyes and sighed when we asked if she could possibly bring us a few packets of coffee for the next morning . the hallways are noisy and starting to look shabby . booked for a few more days . will not be back again .
dh and i stayed here one night pre - cruise and thought it was worth every penny . the owners are sweet , sweet people and actually apologized for chatting with us so long . we assured him we southern folks are used to chatting with strangers on a daily basis ! this is a motel , yes , so please don't expect the ritz . the windows are not insulated so you will hear some street noise and the rooms are small . however , it's clean , has cool retro - styling with neon , the water pressure is great , and the free juice , coffee , muffins , etc . were all very good . we would stay here again in a heartbeat .
this was our first time staying at this particular property but not our first time in new york , we love the area since its so convenient for us , the hotel room was beautiful , clean and very modern , the bathroom was huge especially for a ny hotel . the front desk service was impeccable as far as check - in and the friendly welcome we received . we had a great view of times sq and beyond out to the hudson river . we just booked another weekend getaway for december and it looks like this will be our choice of hotel again . prices do run the gamut but the location is hard to beat if you want to be in the action .
stayed for 2 nights on a stopover . great service from start to finish . room was very spacious with comfy beds . we had breakfast on both mornings in brasserie jo and were not disappointed . the hotel is located on busy UNknown , so traffic noise is to be expected . however , this does mean the hotel is located opposite the prudential centre and the fantastic cheesecake factory - a firm favourite . my reason for knocking off a star is that the room was not greatly soundproofed internally - we could hear the guy next door on his phone and turning switches on / off . however , this would not put me off returning to the colonnade on another visit to boston .
gorgeous lobby , clean modern rooms - i've stayed in a holiday inn express in mexico with great success - clean , basic , inexpensive . and that is what is was - inside . outside , the environment is run - down with 24 - hour porn stores . the hotel is directly across from the juvenile justice center and according to the front desk attendant , right in between 3 ( three ) police stations - so it's safe ! not a comfortable environment for a family with young kids . business , on your own and watching the cash , sure . we had to abandon the reservation . i'll still try a holiday inn express but i will do some more research first .
did you know that if you stayed one night in each room in the chicago hilton , you'd be there for more than 4 years ? this is one of the many trivial facts you can learn about the hotel just by standing in the elevator . i thought this was a neat touch for a hotel that is steeped with UNknown significance . you can't go wrong by staying in a hilton . rooms are neat and the hotel's ambience is quite nice with friendly concierge staff . there really isn't a lot to shout about as the basic necessities are all available . nonetheless if you want to be nearer to the offices and shopping district , you may want to consider the intercontinental instead .
this is a excellent hotel ! we loved it here ! the lady in the front desk is kind of rude though . but the other staff is extremely super nice ! i wish the had a bath instead of just a stand alone shower for my 2 yr old but it did . the rooms are extremely clean , the hotel areas are clean . everything is just nice ! my husband and i forgot out iphone charges and they have a charger / ipod radio in the room ! i was so surprised ! i definitely recommend this hotel . we are from dallas and were here on vacation to take our kids to sea world ! when we come back we will come here !
this was a beautiful hotel . breakfast each morning was cooked to order and fantastic . they also had plenty of serve yourself type food bars with almost overwhelming choices of food to choose from . the decor is gorgeous . the restaurant has beautiful views - very tropical feel to this place . has pool , hot tub , and sauna . the one and only complaint was that there are too few elevators for as many floors and that the elevators are a fraction of the size of a normal elevator and are also used by hotel staff so maid's carts , etc tend to take up the entire elevator . miniature golf course right nextdoor to the hotel as well - within walking distance .
a tired , worn - out convention hotel that has seen better days . even a stay on the club floor was disappointing . the rooms are cramped , the hallways noisy , and the service is almost non - existent . almost 5 hours to get the room made up ( 5 hours after a call requesting the service , that is ) ; a club room that ran out of amenites every day of our stay , and was often not re - stocked ; and generally UNknown staff for whatever else one might need . the 2007 renovation changed the colors and the carpets , perhaps , but this aging hotel needed a good deal more to be competitive in the inner harbor market .
first time to san antonio , tx . had only a short 1 night stay for business , so wanted to stay close to dt . valet parking was $ 22 . 00 at hotel and if we had stayed longer , we possibly would have parked for much less across the street . room was a very large queen studio with a partial kitchen and sleeper sofabed . light wasn't working above vanity , so after making a call to the front desk , someone came right away to fix it . had a complimentary full buffet breakfast in the morning . walked less than 2 - 3 blocks to " the alamo " and " river walk . " weather was perfect in the 80's .
a group of us arrived at the hotel at 10pm after a long flight from london . the staff were rude and unhelpful and we were told that the rooms would not be ready for 3 hours . when we eventually got our rooms , the rooms were dirty , and were not cleaned during the entire stay , the paint was peeling of the walls in many places , one bed was held up by telephone UNknown , what is believed to have been rat poison was found under one of the beds , in one of the rooms there was a large hole in the door to of the toilet where the lock and handle should have been . avoid this hotel at all costs .
we got 3rd night free for 7 nights so paid $ 830 for the week . room was clean and recently refurbished . the batroom was tiny and though . towels were little bigger than face cloths . reception was a bit brusque on arrival but subsequently staff were friendly and helpful when needed . furniture was unnecessarily large for room so less room to move around it but still big enough for 2 . on 6th UNknown , so quiet but longish wait for lift at all times . walking downstairs not too UNknown so not really a problem . good location for express trains to 42nd and 34th st etc . safe neighbourhood with local bars and eats . close to park for good walks .
i found out about hotel max through a coupon deal . i would definitely return , the artwork and decor alone is great , and the staff were nice , courteous and helpful . the location is great , right downtown . we didn't get a chance to go to the restaurant , but there were lots of great restaurants , bars , galleries and shopping within walking distance . the room was really nice , the bed and pillows were super - comfy . the only thing was that the bathroom was tiny ! but totally functional ( our room only had a shower , no bath ) . the goodies selection in the room was unusual and fun : ) i would definitely go again .
holiday inn capitol in dc provided a wonderful stay very close to the metro - 1 1 / 2 blocks - for transportation around the city and within a short walking distance to all the attractions on the national mall . it is in a very safe clean area . the inn has two restauraunts and a close quiznos and mcdonalds nearby which we didn't find until later in our stay . that is the only downfall for this hotel and location - very limited to access to restaurants , etc . however , the overall stay at the inn was wonderful . tour information and bookings are available at the front desk and also in the gift shop . we would definitely return for another visit .
the marriott marina is well - located - if you are in town on business or at a conference . it is easy to walk to the gas lamp district with its many restaurants and shops . the room was comfortable and everything was in working order . the room was very clean . the meeting and conference rooms were comfortable . the restaurant / bar was a bit overpriced , but the portions were good and the food was tasty . the only gripe is that the elevators are extremely slow - it was a constant source of conversation with every single person encountered on ( or waiting for ) the elevator . concierge was just okay , but the rest of the staff was excellent .
i stayed one night in this hotel . the rooms are very small but not to a level to become claustrophobic ( and charmingly decorated ) . internet access was for free and the staff had a great professional attitude . my flight out was in the afternoon the next day but they were able to keep my bags for me ( very well managed , they will give you a numbered pickup ticket for it ) , this service was for free . the location is just great , so i think if i stay in nyc again i will almost certainly stay here again . they don't serve breakfast as far as i remember but there is a inexpensive cafe / restaurant just next door .
i reserved five nights at state plaza on one of their packages . i confirmed my reservation and received a confirmation UNknown my rate . when i went to check out , however , i was presented with a bill in which the package had been broken out into individual items - with prices that added up to more than the price i had booked ! over and over , counter staff and then the manager tried to explain to me that $ 184 . 52 is really the same as $ 172 and that they computer system forced them to bill that way . their arrogance and rudeness in insisting that they had really given my the rate but only " itemized it " was appalling .
i arrived a couple of hours before the scheduled check - in time and the friendly staff at the front desk were able to accomodate me . my room was tiny but clean . the shared bathrooms down the hall were also kept clean as well . the only annoyance is the UNknown are paper thin and it was hard to sleep - in the morning with all the noise in the hallways from other guests , housekeeping vacuuming , doors slamming etc . free wi - fi was included and reliable . the location of the hotel is great . it's about a 10 minute walk to times square . central park and grand central are also within walking distance . i would stay there again .
we stayed at this hotel just for one night to catch a flight out . it is pretty no frills - no bellman - had to wait for a luggage cart ( late at night ) . the worst part was a UNknown air conditioner that kept us up all night . when i complained in the morning - they only gave us " free breakfast " instead of taking something off of our room which annoyed me . while it seems to bill itself as a resort - the property is in a business park and the pool area is very small . it was fine for what it was - at a reasonable rate and free parking but i wouldn't stay for a longer visit .
i have stayed at this hotel a number of times over the past few years , predominantly on business and when attending conferences held here . the conference facilities are great but there is minimal mobile phone coverage when you are in the meeting rooms in the lower levels of the hotel . this can be quite annoying if you need to reach someone . also , the sports pub in the hotel closes way too early ( 11 : 30pm i think ) , and that would be find if the capital city brewing company were open later but it also closes relatively early . aside from the above , the rooms are quite nice and the staff has always been quite helpful during my stays .
in san jose for week long business trip . from check - in to check - out my stay was uneventful and pleasent . the staff here couldnt have been better at accomodating my schedule and making my stay as good as possible . room was spacious , quiet , and clean everyday . breakfast in the adjoining cafe was well worth getting up early for after using the fitness center , which was good to have . hotel is centrally located to downtown san jose and its attractions , as well as numerous fine restaurants ; facility adjoins the convention center which is convenient if attending local events . i will definitely recommend this hotel and plan to stay here again when on a return visit .
nice hotel overall , but too touristic and UNknown ; the checking and hall service is not at the same level of a 5 stars hotel ; never had to queue in a raw to check in and have me been called forward . as i was queuing at post office ; the breakfast at 25 $ is overpriced as the quality and variety of food is poor . very nice room and clean ; comfortable bad ; internet was not working in all the rooms ; i had colleagues experiencing the same problems ; we have been given a phone number to call for fix it , but long time waiting someone to pick up the phone ; good thing i had my blackberry with me .
we were booked in a high - price san diego hotel which was unsatisfactory , so we moved to this sheraton on short notice . ( many hotels in san diego were fully booked at this time ) . i had made an error in the internet booking , but the staff helped us out , found us a good room on the 10th floor and made us feel welcome . the room was a bit small , but had a lovely view , was clean , modern and comfortable . the breakfast was excellent , the staff friendly and helpful . although not in the centre of things , the location is excellent for all sorts of reasons . we would definitely consider staying here again .
i am just getting ready to depart this gem of a hotel but would be remiss if i didn't comment on the past 7 days that we have spent here . the hotel , the staff and the neighbourhood are just excellent and we have no complaints whatsoever ! despite what you may read from others on this forum this hotel is exceptional and we will return again . we bought a seven day nyc transit pass and travelled throughout the city on buses , subways and ferries and i gotta tell you that this is the way to go . you get to experience this fantastic city and her people . i love new york and the affina shelburne ! l & l hamilton , on canada
we hit seattle late ( 5 in the evening ) , and tried a few places , landing at the warwick , an old friend . it is simply sad . our room was not well - kept ( a beer bottle cap on the floor ; grout in the bathroom was filthy ; furniture and coverlet with stains ) ; the balcony door was left open ; the mattresses had long since seen better days . given the extraordinary cost of parking ( $ 27 , plus tax ) , there are so many less expensive options in the area which offer as much if not more . we must say a permanent UNknown to any future stays . the only plus ? the charming restaurant .
stayed here one night for business meeting . check in was easy and the desk clerk very friendly . the room was clean and had a mini bar which was nice to have . i ate at the restaurant UNknown ( sic ) and found the food very good , great selection and the wait staff very accommodating and friendly . checkout was a breeze . my meeting was held in one of the UNknown on the 2nd floor . the accommodations for our meeting was outstanding . lunch that was brought in was really good , nice snacks , etc . i would definately consider staying here again for another meeting or layover . tip - meeting rooms are cold - ladies , bring a sweater .
this is a fantastic location for restaurants and shopping - we have stayed before . it has a snooty vibe but don't let that put you off . we were given a room on the 2nd floor - where all the dogs are so beware ! our sun blind was missing and the room was red hot and we found it difficult to let the ac keep up to the heat yes we complained - did they try and compensate - yes - did it make it better yes and no - we were disapointed and felt second rate - was it because we were on the birthday promo and we given a poor room - who knows ? pool is packed with the glam set so avoid
have stayed at this hotel 3 times now . i luv nyc and regency is our home away from home . our last visit was sept 2009 for our 10 yr wedding anniversary . hotel team was incredible . attentive and a bottle of UNknown waiting for us in our room to celebrate . this hotel is away from the hustle and bustle of times square and 7th avenue ( but a short walk away ) but it is in a glorious location - park avenue ! 2 mins walk to central park . we are travelling to nyc again this year and the regency is already booked . room sizes are fabulous , one of the biggest in new york . dont go past this hotel .
we recently rented three rooms for one night and were UNknown impressed at every turn . although designed for long term business occupation our one night stay let us experience free airport transfers , 2 meals , friendly staff and a newer clean room with comfortable bed . although the dinner and breakfast menu are not UNknown ( included with room rate ) the people were very friendly , accomidating and the facility was extremely clean . our rooms all included a living area , kitchenette , bedroom , bath and large patio area . the rate for a single night was slightly higher but with the meals , airport transfers and room size the rate was very fair . would stay again in if in town .
my wife and i recently spent a week in nyc and used this board to choose the affinia dumont . when we arrived , everyone was pleasant and helpful . the hotel had a small grocery next door , which came in handy with the great kitchen in the room . we were on the top floor and has a phenomenal evening view of both the chrysler building and the empire state building from our window . all the services were outstanding and the price was unreal ! we will stay here everytime we return to nyc . the subway is nearby , so getting around town is quite easy once you master the transit map . the is an absolute hidden jewel in the big apple !
the room was dirty and with bad odor . it's smell like dirty socks . very noisy . no good insulation between rooms . you can hear people walking in the room on top of yours and moving things . apparently everyone can stay there . we stayed 3 nights and even can't sleep due to a group of nasty people staying in two rooms close to us . they came late at night ( 4 : 00am ) and you heard them walking , moving things , shouting , knocking the doors and laughing until 6 : 00am . the owner tried to took them out and had to call the police that basically never came . don't stay in this hotel ! it's a nightmare .
i have stayed at this hotel before when it was a travelodge and wow . what a difference . the hotel has been beautifully remolded . everything was new . i will definetely stay at this hotel again . the staff has done a great job with the service and the renovations . this motel has been remodeled and they now have over 20 cable channels . the rooms are extremely clean and look marvelous . the pool has been kept in perfect shape . the staff was extremely friendly particularly one individual named mike . i would definately recommend this hotel to anyone who would like to get their money's worth and much much more . i would rate this hotel a 5 out of 5 .
we wanted to stay close to the city , that is why we had chosen this hotel . the location was really good , but the rest really was not . we are not so demanding guests , but what we have experienced here , was really a bad dream . the hotel seemed nice from outside , but then everything relieved . dirty bathroom , no breakfast ( only coffee and tea ! ) , dirty room . what was the worst - we have realized next day in the morning - there was some flea in the bed , so we had more than 40 UNknown all over our bodies ! if you have to stay in seattle , please look for a better hotel !
my husband and i have stayed here a few times and most recently in april 2009 . the location can't be beat , only a few blocks from grand central terminal . it is surrounded by many places to eat , drink and be merry . the rooms are clean , quiet and comfortable . the staff very professional and efficient . the lobby is impressive . the rate was $ UNknown with tax for a king size non - smoking room . we have also paid close to $ 250 . if the rate is within budget , we will always opt to stay here . we eat all our meals out to save money , but isn't that the whole reason to go to nyc ?
i really enjoyed this hotel . i travel a great deal . we had to go to a conference in june . my wife got a great deal ( rare to get ) on the internet . it is a outstanding atmosphere , wonderful breakfast buffett , and top notch service . you really get spoiled . it is a very good location close to china town and a short cab drive to fishermans warf . i am a discerning traveler and for me to rate excellent only comes 10% of the time . bottom line if your business is paying for it or if you get a great deal on the internet take it . the tonga room is fun also ( lower level bar ) raj
great location and beautiful facility , but not worth $ 300+ per night because of poor service . i requested a high floor and just one bed in the room when i made my reservation months earlier . was given a cramped room with two beds and a second floor room overlooking the motor court . and i am even a marriott rewards member ! tried to order room service for breakfast the evening i arrived , yet the phone was busy all three times i called . front desk said i could call in the e morning . when i did , room service was so backed - up that they could not accomodate me . dissappointing stay compared to the price and what i expected .
the copley squre is in a great location and within walking distance to almost all the main attractions and quite a few metro stations . we upgraded to a suite and it was worth the $ 10 a night extra . the room and en - suite were both more than spacious . while the view wasn't great , the room was otherwise perfect . staff were very helpful and friendly and i couldn't fault them . the manager's wine tasting evenings in the lobby were a very nice touch . and it's free ! there is a bar and a restaurant in the lobby , which are fine , but a little soulless . otherwise , not much to complain about and would definitely recommend it .
i stayed in this place for 8 nights in march and , i am were very happy and pleased with the hotel and their staff . check in was fast and easy . the staff was so pleasant and accomodating . the location is a short walk to the happy valley town centre with various shopping and restaurant option in a stone throw away distance . the breakfast is plentiful and acceptable with a set menu all days and limited changes . vegetarians like me might find limited options certain days . i personally prefered to have a one bedroom suite with comfortable beds to unwind at the end of the day . this place defintely is worth coming back to on the next trip to phx .
my son and i recently stayed in the baseball suite at the hotel commonwealth . every aspect exceeded expectations . upon arrival , the doorman and registration staff UNknown smiles and were more than helpful and available . the suite itself was a treasure . my son looked at every UNknown and enjoyed one of the baseball movies available . not only was it very clean , but the " little amenities " such as the " turn down " service , chocolates on the pillow , water and the superior toiletries left in the bathroom , all made us feel like royalty . the location was wonderful , a close walk to fenway , the train , and many restaurants . i never wanted to leave .
during our spring break , we stayed at this hotel so our family could enjoy the many sites in dc . the hotel was conveniently located near all the major museums , capital , white house and other attractions . we didn't need to take a bus or subway we just walked and felt safe everywhere we went . the service was also wonderful . barbara at the front desk was very receptive to our many questions . everyone seemed genuinely interested in us having an enjoyable stay . the hotel room was clean and well maintained as well . my kids couldn't get enough of the pool and we enjoyed the roof top terrace . we hope to return and will definitely stay at this hotel .
easy to reach from the airport using the complimentary shuttle to the light rail , with a light rail station just one block north . lovely lobby , period piece . i was quite excited by its appearance , and looking forward to my stay . but the small - sized room , although clean , was not up - to - date . no electric outlet near the desk made using the computer to get some work done far less than convenient . there was no in - room control of the heating / cooling system . but the worst thing was the luke warm water for my shower in the morning . this was unforgivable , and could not be remedied in a timely fashion .
i really enjoyed staying at this hotel - the room was far nicer and roomier than i'd expected , and had a kitchenette . the only downside - our room was right over the adjacent bar . the first night we were there was 80's night in the bar , and we couldn't get to sleep until around 2am . we asked for ear plugs at the front desk , but they didn't have any . the next day we went out and bought some , and was able to sleep fine using them . all in all , i still had a great time , and do recommend this hotel , but management should have ear plugs on site for guests staying in the lower rooms .
one night stay at end of tour of south ( san antonio , galveston , new orleans and lake UNknown ) following our son's graduation ceremony at trinity in san antonio . had 2 rooms prior to flight back to uk as thought the link to minute maid ballpark would be fun . staff were helpful and friendly from front desk to valet parking and rooms were great , interesting decor , clean and spacious . the hotel was a great finale to our trip but one suggestion , make more of the option to have tour of minute maid stadium as we did not realise it was an option until googling on journey home . suggest it is great " tick in box " for tourists .
pleasant surprise as this was booked through travel office for business . had an early morning flight to catch so was put up for the night here . very nice room and comfy bed . easy to get to and easy to get back and forth from rental car agency to airport / hotel . no airport noise that i heard . room service was very good , not quite as pricey as i'm used to , appetizer , meal , tip , tax , and service charge made it just over $ 30 . only complaint was crappy view but it being only one evening it was no big deal . easy to get downtown on mass transit if you so desire . i'd stay again !
hands down the best hotel in nyc . i stay at the 4 seasons , penninsula and regency for business and this would always be my first choice . the rooms are beautifully appointed . the pillows , linens and mattress are heaven . front desk service is the most professional and service oriented . room service is from jean george restaurant in the hotel . one of the finest restaurants in nyc . absolutely delicious . a great neighborhood , easy to walk to great shopping and the theatre . try to get a one bedroom suite if you can . if not the standard rooms are lovely , all with discreet and well equipped kitchens . the bathrooms rock ! jacuzzi tubs . book it !
no complaints from me with this hotel . only had to wait 5 minutes for the free shuttle from the airport , and the driver left straight away with only me on it . check in was easy with a friendly clerk . she said i can have the room for a different rate from what i originally booked , so that saved me $ 10 . she also booked me onto the shuttle back to the airport the next morning . the room was great , very roomy , comfortable king size bed , free wi - fi . the only issue you may have is with road noise , but i was so tired , it didn't bother me . definitely would use this again .
i had the opportunity to stay at this hotel and only selected it because of the location , positive reviews and the delightful amenities advertised on their website . the discount room rate offered to guests over the age of 50 years was also a plus . well to my amazement the day i checked out i was informed that the rate had changed . i have never ever heard of a hotel increasing a room rate once a confirmation number had been issued and guaranteed with a credit card . unbelievable . hotel monticello will never see me again and nor will i recommend this hotel to anyone else . personally , i think they UNknown a senior citizen and the front desk manager enforced it .
we followed the advice of reviewers on trip advisor as we regularly do . all the feedback was right . this hotel is well located and a really great place to stay . the staff are very friendly and more than happy to help with advice about where to go , how to get there , what to do and where to eat . we decided to upgrade to a suite and it was money well spent as it gives you a bit more room to stretch your legs . charlie chaplin ( the cat ) adds a really personal touch . thanks to daniel and the other staff and a special thanks to jay with his matching glasses and ties . we will definitely be back .
i saw some of the previous reviews in regards to receiving bad service and i must say our experience was the total opposite . from the moment i called to confirm our reservations until the moment we left we received excellent service . all staff members were extremely courteous . we were traveling with an infant so it could be quite difficult . but the staff went out of their way to assist us with what ever we needed . the room itself was nice . it was a little above average . we had a nice view of the harbor . the hotel is conveniently located to the inner harbor and camden yards . i would definitely consider staying at this hotel for any future travels .
when traveling by car , i usually look for a hampton inn to stop in overnight ; i have always found them to be very clean , and to have accommodations superior to what one would expect for the rate . i was disappointed by the property in jacksonville , however . everything about it looks a little old , and we even had to change rooms at 10 : 30 pm , as the ac in our room was not working . the new room smelled suspiciously like car air freshener - i couldn't help but wonder what they were trying to mask with that unusual smell . the staff people were nice enough - it is just the property itself that seems run - down .
this is the second year a group of us ( 15 ) came for sunday brunch . last year they had a taco bar and high quality food . this year no taco bar and the food was not up to par as usual . our waiter was a gem and the view wonderful . we pay $ 41 so i do like to get my moneys worth . i had planned on staying there , but was unable to use my 2 free nights ( i won on a radio station ) because it didn't fit their time schedule . i live in another state and vacation in july . i am glad to have stayed at another resort which had much better accommodations for me .
i stayed one night , and would have stayed longer , but it was booked solid . as soon as i checked in i could see why . very affordable and along a tree lined street in the w village . the rooms are small , but who cares because it's oh so comfy . very clean , and you get a continental breakfast thrown in - if you can find the downstairs breakfast room . the decor in the rooms ain't much chop , but they provide a clean white bathrobe that nearly UNknown you whole when you put it on with the also provided slippers . i will happily stay here again , but i'll get my act together and make reservations well in advance .
this hotel was recommended by the client i was in town to visit . i booked a standard room at $ 171 . 00 per night and got just what i expected . the room was somewhat small ( not bad for nyc ) , but was clean and fairly quiet ( again , quiet for nyc ) . the only problem i experienced was the poor selection of tv channels and the lack of wireless internet . they say they have it , but none was found . ( not a show stopper since i always carry a UNknown wireless adapter ) . but since i was there for business i spent my evenings in the room working so the lack of tv was a drag .
we have had such an enjoyable stay we feel we must provide a write up ! the positives are that the rooms are very clean and spacious and the staff unfailingly helpful and polite . the fact that breakfast is included is a bonus . we mostly walked and the hotel is very well located . negatives are the poor artificial lighting and dull decor . for this price we did not expect views but time spent indoors is more enjoyable if you can read travel guides comfortably ! we read complaints about noise . we were on level 2 overlooking a car park . this was no problem after a hard days sightseeing and using gel earplugs ! it all comes down to value for money .
stayed here mid - december for one night . the rooms are very nice . i'm not sure if we had neighbors because we never heard a peep . it was very quiet . the bed was comfortable and the shower had good pressure . we didnt have much of a view but that didnt matter much . the parking is valet as everyone says . there is a parking lot right next to the hotel but i " m not sure if it's overnight parking but it is cheaper than valet . there is a small coffee shop right across from the hotel and a small market around the corner . the roof has a nice pool and jacuzzi . i would definitely stay here again .
we appreciated the location for our first visit to nyc . it is really close to all the big tourist sights . the staff is very friendly and helpful . the concierge was able to book some of our tickets for us , which was a big help . the hotel is big with lots of traffic but it added to the ny experience in a good way . it is a very clean well run hotel . if you can , get the club privileges on the 16th floor . the food is very good and the roof top terrace is relaxing after a day a site seeing . the rooms are a bit on the small side but i understand that is typical for nyc .
my wife and i visit san antonio several times a year . we had never stayed at the bestwestern suites before until aug , 09 . the service was great from the front desk ( ashley ) to the maids . we stayed again in dec , 09 , service and rooms where just as great as the first visit . we are coming back in april for UNknown and looking forward to staying here again . also the trolley stop is right behind the parking lot which is very / very convenient . the they have different routes that take you all over the city , also stop in and visit the sunset train station at th opposite end of block across the street , very nice
this is certainly the most affordable hotel i've stayed in in chicago . my room was small but clean . the neighborhood is a bit dodgy but no more so than most other urban settings in the us . the thai restuarant was fabulous . the location UNknown two blocks from the cta redline and quite close to grant park . the l - train on state street was a bit loud , but the constant hum of the air conditioner mitigated the noise . it didn't keep me awake . i was there for business but wouldn't hesitate to bring my family back for a leisure trip . i would file this hotel under the general heading of " you get what you pay for . "
we stayed here for one night before heading out on an alaskan cruise . the location was convenient to what we wanted . space needle , pike's market and the cruise terminal . we did not rent a car and were glad that we didn't as the hotel charges for parking as well as most of the places that we wanted to see . rooms were nice ( beds comfy ) and seem to vary as ours was somewhat small , but more than adequate . our flight got into seattle quite early but the hotel let us drop off our luggage with the bell hop and they stored it until we could check in to our room later that day . would definitely stay here again !
my family stayed for 3 nights at this hotel . i have stayed at dozens of marriott hotels all over the world and the desk staff and gentlemen working the doors ( bellmen ? ) went out of their way to be helpful to us . the man working the front door on wed and saturday was fantastic , at one point he ran down the street to UNknown us to the subway station which is a 3 minute walk from the front door . this hotel is a 5 minute walk from the mlb washington nationals baseball stadium which i highly recommend . the games are great , the stadium is excellent and you can be back in your room ten minutes after the game ends .
i live in la and have a number of visitors who stay at the custom . this unique , modern and well staffed hotel has never resulted in an unkind word . my experience with staff and management is as good as any during my many travels . van service and location in relation to lax great . neighborhood has much to offer - many resturants , grocery stores , recreation , in short walking distance plus beaches near and public transportation gets you to other westside areas with ease . try it , i think like me you will like the custom . ( did i mention get pool area and unique end of day bar and restaurant specials at the hotel ? did now . )
sorry folks , we booked through UNknown travel and were promised 5 star accomodation . when we arrived we were very dissappointed but put it down to being tired . after a good nights sleep the place still wasn't what we expected from the reviews we read on this page . we were expecting a hotel not an apartment block with the smell of cooking in the corridors . the staff were also quite surly and gave us wrong information . we paid extra to be central but it was quite far out and taxi cabs were taken each evening to get back . we had a fantastic time in new york though and when we go back we will not be staying at the envoy club .
stayed two nights on july 2003 and one night in august . arrived after a long journey and were picked up quickly by the shuttle bus , very reassuring . the staff were very helpful in arranging the booking , ordering taxis etc . the place has a slightly run - down feel but has a character we didn't come to appreciate unit we stayed at other chain hotels . the balconies , pool and low - rise buildings are a plus . noise from planes taking off and ancient air conditioning - a minus . good size rooms , clean , well furnished . not keen on denny's next door so there's a long way to anywhere else . a one off and worth a visit .
just one night . quick check - in , though a little trouble over check - out time . my reservation was of a kind that included 2pm check - out , but the desk clerk treated it as a " request " . we compromised on 1pm , but i'm not sure what didn't get through from the reservation . quiet ( mostly ) room - odd banging outside ( ? ) in the night . a / c was not easy to manage . iron leaked more than steamed . had a meal as part of a conference banquet - very good food and excellent waiters . also had a business meeting in one of their " board rooms " - excellent facility & service .
we had a great stay at the amalfi , room was very comfortable although they vary in size for the same price . the evening reception was a definite plus , good assortment of appetizers and a choice of top shelf drinks , but the line was long on the weekend nights and not enough space to sit and socialize . the free morning breakfast was conveniently located on each floor . i really liked how this hotel didn't nickel and dime you for extras like many chicago hotels do . also i appreciated the hotel giving us a late check out as we weren't leaving until late afternoon . the best part was we booked the room at an excellent special price on the hotel's website .
this hotel was perfect for a cheap crash in nyc without being disgusting or dangerous . it is in a beautiful neighborhood and has great security . we checked in really late , but the desk attendant was extremely friendly . the bellman in the morning was also very nice , and helped us with our bags . the shared bathrooms could definitely use some modernization , but for the most part seemed clean and sanitary . our room was very small , but had everything we needed for one night , including a toiletry set and slippers . it was clean , and simple , but we really didn't need anything else . i will definitely stay here again on my next quick trip to nyc .
i have stayed at about 20 different hotels in ny and this was my second time at this courtyard . when i am paying , this is my hotel of choice . it is not as deluxe as others , nor does it have an amazing design , or special amenities , but the location is great - near theaters without being in the craziness of times square , near all types of transportation , and the surrounding neighborhood is good too . it is where i like to be . the rooms are quiet , everything works well , and the staff is friendly and helpful . for the money , this hotel is my top pick . and much more enjoyable than the marriott marquis .
had never stayed here and was very pleased by what i saw . room was fantastic . i was pleased to see it had a full - size ironing board , which sounds immensely boring but anyone who has ever flown cross - country and needed to press a pair of pants can tell you . that's a nice thing to see in new york . plenty of room to work and the room looked brand new . the gym was really nice and appeared to be well - kept up . the location is fantastic , especially if you have an office in midtown . i didn't need the subway , but the 6 train is only 3 blocks away . would absolutely stay here again .
this was a nice hotel however i was annoyed by a few things . first off , since when do hotels charge $ 10 . 00 per day to use the gym ? i think this is rediculous and i chose not to pay this . parking at the hotel is $ 30 . 00 per day however this is pretty typical of washington dc . the internet was also priced high . they even charged for wireless in your room . so if you bring a laptop you are still paying . the internet in the business office is insane . some outrageous price that i didnt pay . aside from all this the hotel is in a prime location and the staff is very friendly .
we found this hotel after immediately checking out of the santa monica doubletree due to dissatisfaction . the renaissance was much nicer , and less than half the price ! rooms were above average and included a refrigerator . front desk staff recommended a good mexican restaurant ( UNknown ) and was very efficient . would absolutely stay here again if we needed to stay around lax ( 5 mins to airport ) . surprisingly , we were watching planes land all night and no one was awakened by the noise ( windows must be extra - soundproof because we couldn't hear a thing ! ) . head south on hwy 1 about 5 miles for great shopping , dining , and groceries ( whole foods ) .
the london is the most fabulous hotel i have ever stayed in . my wife and i stayed there for 4 nights for our honeymoon and although it is expensive you certainly get what you pay for . everthing is top notch and you will struggle to find a grander more luxurious hotel in nyc . if you want to pamper yourself and really live it up then the london will tick all the boxes ! gordon UNknown restaurant on the ground floor is also superb and thoroughly recommended . location is superb . 2 mins walk from time square and broadway . 5 mins walk from 5th avenue and 10 mins from central park . fantastic , and for me and my wife it was faultless .
i would like to say first of all , that i was a bit confused to actually find the hotel to begin with . i found the sign on the wall for the herbert hotel , but that was it . you actually have to go through the entrance of the diner below . the hotel was clean , and in great condition , and the location was more than perfect , only being a very short walk to market street and the subway . the only concern that i had with this hotel was that there was no air conditioning in the room , and it got fairly hot inside . you couldn't have the window open at night because of the noise from the street .
great hotel in downtown dallas . breakfast buffet was mediocre , but still satisfactory . they offer inexpensive upgrades via email , which turned out to be a great value . i had a 23rd floor corner suite and the view was amazing , the room was quite spacious . staff was great , very friendly and accommodating . suites are spacious and have pleasant decor . the valet parking is overpriced . i'm sure on busy days you may have quite a wait for the valet if you don't call ahead . there is a parking garage close by that offers much better rates but at the sacrifice of convenience . i'd probably opt to use said garage on future visits unless the weather is lame .
we stayed at the omni parker 2nd to 5th december and really enjoyed our stay ; we thought the hotel was beautiful and well worth the money . the building itself gives you the feel of " old boston " you can imagine gentlemen in UNknown coats walking the halls . it's right on the freedom trail so couldn't be in a better location . we didn't eat at the hotel so can't comment on the food and the bar seemed a little expensive ( but the measures were rather large ! ) . the bedroom was small but adequate , the beds very comfortable , the shower excellent ( hot water always available ) . i wouldn't hesitate to recommend this hotel to anybody staying in boston
this hotel was our first stop on our one month usa trip . we arrived at the hotel at about 9am and the staff were fantastic , enabling us to check in to our room at 10am . as we were only in la for one day , the staff helped used to book our la tour . the staff also assisted us with booking a car to drive us to hollywood in the evening and then pick us up also . the room was a good size and was clean . a special mention to joe - the concierge - who had the best sense of humour and was a great help with all of our questions . would definitely stay here again . great experience .
we found this hotel while looking through tripadvisor several nights before arriving in nyc . the reviews seemed to be very good . the good reports were what we found to be similar to our experience . the deluxe queen room was new york sized , clean and well appointed . the front staff were absolutely fantastic , with a true eagerness to help and a happiness to do so . something that you don't often find anymore . management was very approachable and equally eager to offer the best experience even after departing for UNknown . the location is excellent and not so close to time square to affect ones sleep . the subway is less than a block away . definitely will stay here again .
i stayed at the doubletree suites with two teenagers for a couple of nights to see a couple of shows . the hotel is very nice , but arriving friday night is a complete zoo with the traffic , no doorman is really available and it took at least an hour to get valet parking and into the hotel . the rooms are very nice and the hotel is clean , the rollaway bed is comfortable as well as the king size bed . there is plenty of room for the family , especially for a new york hotel . it is really really expensive though , nearly $ 900 for two nights . not a great bargain by any means . kids did love the location .
love the trump soho ! very friendly and approachable staff , excellent front desk staff and bellhops , some issues with getting cab service in front of hotel but this was only on one night , rooms are large and comfy , beds so comfortable . this hotel is very nice and comfortable even for upscale travelers but i would not call it " luxury . " it is more relaxed and friendly . the area is great , with lots of great shopping and restaurants , walk easily to west village area . the staff is the best i have ever experienced in nyc . we would stay here again . oh ! the views are incredible here and with huge windows , lots of light !
this is a very nicely appointed and clean hotel in a prime area of the san fernando valley , right in the middle of warner center . we had a beautiful view of warner center from the 8th floor . the staff was professional , courteous , and attentive especially the woman ( asian gal , whoever she was ) who managed the front desk and checked us out around 11 : 00 on sunday , 12 / 16 . the hotel lobby and lounge are warm , open and inviting . the hotel appears to be very well maintained . across the street is a very nice mall and pf chang's ( a favorite ) . there are many other restaurants and lounges UNknown the area .
my husband and i stayed at the four seasons for a valentine's weekend gift to ourselves . we have stayed at some amazing hotels , but we both agreed this was our best hotel experience yet . the service was impeccable . we were in an executive suite overlooking the lake and it was gorgeous . we did not want to leave . in fact , we pretty much stayed in the room the entire time just to soak it all in . we waited longer than average for our car from the valet , which was our only annoyance the entire time . i noted this to the manager and they offered a free facial for a future visit . we can't wait to get back !
we only stayed one night here but would have happily moved in . we were in the old house section of the hotel so can only comment on that but on arrival got upgraded to a superior room , it was perfect . had we had not had to move on , washington dc is a lovely place to stay , we arrived on a sunday and while there is hardly a thing open , it makes for a beautiful walk around town . the subway system is very good once you can work out your closest stop . all in all a top experience , luxury all the way , 5 star service and quality with great staff , friendly service and a reasonable price tag .
we had a poor experience staying at this hotel . we booked this hotel because it was close to the zoo and had a pool . in calling to confirm our reservation the hotel clerk was rude . when we arrived at the hotel , we found out that the only pool was closed , due to renovations . this was never mentioned when booking , even though it was obvious the renovations were going to be lengthy as an entire section of the hotel was torn down . the hotel is very old . the bathtub had rusty stain around the drain and the drain wasn't draining . when booking out , the clerk on duty was quite rude again and with a lot of attitude .
i was in san antonio for a single night - to attend a fund - raising event - and simply needed a clean and comfortable place to spend the overnight hours . pear tree inn provided those accommodations very nicely . besides being very environmentally friendly - they even had dual flush toilets - they offered free wireless internet . the free wifi signal was among the strongest of any hotel i've ever stayed with . the only thing i would recommend the hotel consider when they make improvements in the future is to provide power outlets at the in - room desk and bedside for charging electronic devices . needing to unplug a lamp or plug in next to the sink is a rather outdated model .
my boyfriend and i stayed for one night when we were in town for the notre dame / navy game and it was a very nice stay . i don't remember our view , i don't believe we had one , but for one night in the middle of a city , it's not a big deal . to self - park was odd having to go across the street , underground then back up and across again but the bed was unbelievably comfy , clean bathrooms and for a football weekend , the noise level was contained within the rooms . the bartenders were very nice and the drink prices were as expected for a city . overall , a nice stay if passing through town .
the hotel was nice and spacious and modern . the food was nice and the staff were helpful , we even had a chauffeur who took us places we wanted to go . my criticism is that in order to get to your room you had to have a key for the lifts , which is great security , however was very annoying considering there was only one key for our room ! i'm a sucker when it comes to dallas , but i've seen better areas of the downtown . i felt a little lost , being british . so for people who aren't familiar with the area i wouldn't recommend it . there is a dart stop a few hundred yards down the road though .
i had a strangely - shaped corner room at the marriott for my last visit to nyc and i really enjoyed it overall . like the room , the bathroom was also oddly shaped . you can tell the hotel's been " cut up " a lot over the years . still , it was a typical marriott room with all of the business travel amenities one would expect . internet was expensive but bundled with free phone calls so i made the most of that service . also , it can be noisy if facing the street but it's new york city after all ! my first marriott visit in new york since i usually stay at a hilton property but it won't be the last .
we went to san francisco to celebrate our 25th anniversary and really enjoyed our stay at the orchard hotel . we prefer smaller , more intimate hotels and this is one of the nicer ones we've stayed in . all the staff , without exception , were great ~ very friendly and helpful . our room was spacious , attractively decorated and exceptionally clean and well - maintained and the bed very comfortable . our only complaint was a loud banging noise off and on throughout the night and we were unable to tell if it was coming from inside or outside the hotel .
my wife and i went there for 4 nights for our anniversary . we could not have been happier . first they allowed us to check in early which allowed us to get our bags to the room before a tour we had scheduled . the staff was amazing along with the room . the location is perfect and we felt so comfortable there from start to finish . the staff gave great suggestions of restaurants and even followed up trying to get us an earlier time at restaurant . we may need to save up to go again but was worth every penny .
we did not even know about this hotel , until recommended by the baylor hospital hotel , and now we stay at the indigo whenever in town , especially on UNknown baylor . the hotel is historic , yet up to date in every aspect . the staff was not just friendly but highly motivated to see that the guest's every need was met , great service abounds at every level . the bar and grill was conveniently located in the lobby with a great menu and the same great service as the rest of the indigo . we recommend the indigo without reservations !
not cheap , but you only get what you pay for . living amongst stars in new york was something special . there were several actors and one of the most famous rock stars in the world staying at the hotel when we were there . staff were great ; friendly helpful and nothing was too much for any that we met , especially the doorman , every time we returned there was a big smile and a friendly chat . very central and ideal for a visit to see the sites and shopping in the big apple . saving upto visit here again .
traveled with teen , 11 y / o and husband . we thought the location - quiet neighborhood , so close to the capital ( 2 blocks ) was just ideal . all of the hotel employees were exceptionally friendly and helpful . complimentary breakfast was good . quick walk to eastern market for dinner or drinks and lastly , we walked with our bags to the train station ( about 6 blocks away ) . room was spacious - girls had a sofa bed and we had our own bedroom . i thought it was the best hotel deal i'd had in years .
we stayed at the hotel sax last minute because our original hotel was overbooked . the staff at the hotel took care of some very disgruntled people and put us at ease right away . the bowling alley adjacent to the hotel is lots of fun and the finger foods are tasty . the bar downstairs is really nice and a cool place to just relax . the room itself posed a few issues that the hotel was a little slow in attending to , but considering everything else , it was very minor and didn't really change our attitude towards the overall experience .
excellent hotel but they allow pets . we had a barking dog in the next room . i don't understand why a hotel this nice would allow dogs in the rooms . let the people traveling with dogs stay at motel6 . other than that the stay way great . the check - in process was amazing . the counter person was pleasant and efficient . the room was pre - paid but still we had our keys to the room in less than 60 seconds from walking in the door . lots of restaurants in the area including cracker barrel right next door .
i called the 8th avenue inn one week before arriving and made a reservation with the front desk clerk . we UNknown confirmed the reservation with joe at the hotel . he gave me a confirmation number . we showed up on the day of the reservation and they have no room for us . no reservation in our name . eric at the front desk was extremely unhelpful . i would definitely not recommend this hotel . it looked dumpy . i drove the two blocks to the 6th avenue inn and they were great ! i highly recommend them . way nicer .
i usually stay in the hilton which has all the amenities of a 5 star hotel but is also quite stuffy ! the residence inn studios are equipped with a a kitchen , desk and table , they are not the most modern rooms but are due to have a renovation . if your staying for more than a few nights i would highly recommend as this its an excellent location for shopping and entertainment . the studio is equipped so you have the conveniences you may require at home . moreover the staff go out of there way to help assist and accommodate .
this is a wonderful hotel if you want to be treated to a classic boston experience . we really enjoyed our stay on the executive floor . it was worth the extra money . we were treated to superb personal attention , free internet access and a delicious hot breakfast . we stayed in a standard room and it was spacious and comfortable . i would have given them an excellent rating except that the shower had very poor water pressure . i opted to take a bath instead . i believe that removing the water UNknown from the showers would solve the problem .
i am reminded of why i don't stay at the w . good location but way overpriced . no coffee in the rooms and oatmeal with coffee was 36 dollars . to top it off 14 . 95 internet . finally , i wanted to get red wine from the mini bar and it ended up that they didnt have any and i accidentally opened port which was an incredibly expensive mistake . i usually stay at other places in the city that have the same price point and have way more included amenities . wouldn't stay here again . staff was friendly though .
stayed 5 nights at the casablanca and enjoyed the hotel , the staff and the location . there is a 2nd floor lounge that served continental breakfast , all day cookies and coffee and evening wine and cheese . it was great ! the location for theatre going was perfect . i was initially booked into room 308 which was extremely noisy due to the ventilation system from the next door building but i asked to be moved and was accomodated quite willingly . i moved to a room on the inside courtyard which was much quieter . i would highly recommend this hotel .
i was very pleased with my stay at this candlewood . the staff were always friendly , smiling , and very helpful . every day my daughter and i stopped at the front desk to ask for directions to our destination and we always received great directions . they don't offer daily housekeeping ( which is about the only thing i wasn't happy with ) , however , they will give you clean towels any time you ask . their outdoor pool was lovely and well - kept . if i ever plan to spend time in indianapolis again i will definitely stay here .
a co - worker recommended this hotel . we booked one night here as we had come to tour around the san diego area . the view is fantastic ! the service is exceptional ! the bed was very very comfortable . no complaints whatsoever on this hotel . it may cost a bit more than the standard hotel , but it is worth the extra ! i had mentioned to one of the staff that it was my husband's birthday and we were surprised with a bottle of champagne with 2 glasses from room service staff ! stay here ! a great hotel !
we were staying only for a night in UNknown and found the travel in hotel a perfect spot . nearby restaurants , very close to the javits center , the riverfront for cruises , and not over - the - top expensive . fabulous , very inexpensive breakfast / lunch restaurant right next door . a big pool with lounge chairs , and . free parking ! someone was always cleaning and sprucing things up ! this does not pretend to be the plaza , but for a quiet , comfortable , and reasonable night or more in the city , this is wonderful !
the silver cloud is in the u UNknown , close to the big newish shopping center . it is in a nice location where you can walk to the uw campus and also to shops and restaurants . the staff was very nice . ( i was there with a loosely organized group this summer ) . they offer umbrellas for walking to various local places , and they're really big nice golf umbrellas . the breakfast is nice . the hotel decor does look a bit old , but overall , i think it is a decent stay for the price and location .
since this was our first time to new york we weren't sure of where we should stay . this ended up being the perfect location to enjoy all that times square has to offer . our room was not fancy but it was clean . the lobby was very nice with a restaurant and bar which we didn't have the chance to try since we were trying to go and see as much of new york as possible . it always seemed busy so we thought that was a good sign . we would definitely stay here again when we return to new york .
the hotel was just right for our annual family get together ! the staff made it easy to organize the room requests and were just as helpful during our stay . they were full of great ideas for eateries and really helped us to navigate the public transit perfect . nothing fancy but the rooms were clean and the location was perfect ! the only downside was the onsite restaurant - overpriced w / so - so food . not a deal - breaker tho bc there were lots of good spots to eat within walking distance . i would definitely stay here again .
my wife had a week - long conference in chicago , and we we were booked at the doubletree hotel . had a wonderful time there . the room was most clean and comfortable , as was the bed and first - rate linens . service was the tops , and the in - hotel UNknown was superb . we were in close walking distance to plenty of cool bars and other UNknown , as well as shopping venues . would surely book there again on our next chicago visit . don't forget about the warm chocolate cookies upon check - in ? great !
very convenient to the airport ; however , remodeling was taking place during my stay . as a result of the remodeling , the water in the shower initially flowed dirty and almost black but cleared to normal after running a long time . the continental breakfast would have been better if it had taken place in its original setting ; breakfast was located in a meeting room due to the remodeling . it seems that some of the hot items were missing . despite the remodeling , my room was nice and clean , and served the purpose that it was required for .
my husband and i stayed here two nights on our last two nights of our western vacation . it is close to the airport and has great views of the marina and waterfront . the room was large and i'm not sure whether it had been recently updated or was in the process of being updated ( decor not to my liking - done in browns and oranges ) . the bathroom was large . we were in a non smoking room , but i think it smelled heavily of cigarette smoke - maybe chemical cleaner - not pleasant . the staff was friendly .
great - looking hotel , great location , but a few key issues likely due to a mad rush to open : 1 . no internet access . wifi didn't work on 21st floor ; 2 . weak shower h2o pressure , and very poor drainage of shower / bath 3 . water from faucets was solid gray = undrinkable other than that it was great , but those are the basics any good hotel needs to nail down to be worth repeat visits . i'll recommend it to my colleagues , but not until ( 1 ) & ( 3 ) are fixed .
great location next to subway and on convenient lexington ave . the room was ok size for two people , clean and good amenitites . it could use some cosmetic upgrades . the best experience while there : our booking agent had booked us for incorrect dates and we didn't catch the problem . when checking in , they had no reservation for us on that date ; however , they quickly worked to accommodate us with the same rates as promised by agent and gave us warm cookies . convenient to breakfast and lunch restaurants and walking distance to many more great restaurants .
our room wasn't quite to par , there was hair in the bathtub and in back of the restroom door , the ac unit was making an unbearable loud bang . we went downstairs and mona at the front desk promptly moved us to a much nicer and clean room . she kept apologizing for the inconvenience , we know she didn't have to apologize , since she wasn't the one to clean the rooms . later on i went back downstairs and thanked her again . i will surely be coming back to this location , they really made us feel like family .
had two separate nights at hotel mela . first night was in a spacious " superior full " room which we enjoyed , though noisy from neighbouring roof airconditioner . second night was in a smaller quiet room , which we found more than adequate for our needs . actually quite cosy . staff very accommodating . no problem storing luggage for two nights while we headed to amish country . beds extremely comfortable . great location . would stay here again . appreciated a fresh apple from the counter when we arrived . the irish pub just a few doors down highly recommended !
my husband and i stayed at the hilton UNknown for 4 nights just recently . i have nothing bad to say about this stay . it is walking distance to times square , broadway and central park and is surrounded by many difference places to eat . subways are located on each corner of the block which makes for easy access to all districts . front desk and bellman were delightful and the rooms were always made up perfectly . beds are very comfortable and the rooms were a perfect size . i will definitely stay at the hgi should i return to nyc .
well located but that's it . rooms are small , poorly decorated and furnished , in rather poor conditions , tiny bathroom needing a few repairs , towels of the lowest quality . breakfast was disgusting , organisation and service below standards . a few staff were ok , but not all . terrace put forward as a key feature was not accessible , etc . this is not my first bad experience with sheraton , i think they simply get it wrong and are far below their competitors with a few exceptions around the world , but on average they are below average !
recently , i had the pleasure of providing on - site UNknown support for a company who was in charlotte for a meeting at this hilton . while the hotel and its location are excellent , they are exceeded only by the service of erin brown and staff . accommodating and responsive are two words that come immediately to mind when describing these individuals . our meeting had constantly moving parts and requests , but all were met with a UNknown willingness to help . i would definitely recommend this hotel if you are looking for a location for your next meeting or event .
after exhausting efforts looking for a place to stay in manhattan . i finally broke down and paid the 500 a night for this hotel . its right in times square . you can not get closer . excellent security and safety . and if your driving like we did , your car is in a secured area down the street . $ 250 gets you a dump in manhattan . may as well pay for this one and get all the bells and whistles . your only probably doing it once . we found it worth every cent . and its super clean .
i had a good stay here . nothing was too memorable . it served it's purpose ! at check in , we had a bad front desk person . he just looked depressed . the rooms were clean and spacious . the concierge was sweet and pointed us to some exciting night life . our tv didn't work . the shower was clogging so the water would rise up ! i did like that every time we called down to front desk a requested something , we would get a follow up call like 15 minutes later to make sure our needs were met !
check - in was very fast . i was told about the breakfast , evening reception , and cookies and milk . the room was clean and bright , but dark when the curtains were pulled . the bed and 4 pillows were awesome . the only problem was not knowing how to turn on / off or control the volume of the tv by remote . once the on button on the back of the tv was pressed , the remote would change the channels . i failed to tell the hotel about this . all personnel were courteous and treated us warmly .
we were passing through houston and had an overnight connection so we decided to stay at the airport marriott for convenience . the hotel was in an extremely convenient location within the airport , it took about 5 minutes to get there from the terminal via the tram system . the hotel is sub - standard compared to other full scale marriotts i have stayed at ( and i stay at a lot of marriotts for work ) both in terms of decor and service , however , if just looking for convenience at the airport than the hotel should meet your needs fine .
sofitel new york is very convenient for 5th avenue and times square in midtown manhattan . got a good rate but the facilities were very high end . got a nice upgrade with a king room , no view but this is manhattan so many UNknown view dingy courtyards . excellent bed , very nice bathroom indeed and very roomy all round . used the bar / restaurant which was quite classy . staff were attentive throughout , they have carried the french accent well . i'd recommend the sofitel for a high quality stay in midtown at a good price , especially for nyc
this hotel is top - notch . location excellent for walking everywhere and since we took a train , this worked out perfect . if you have an opportunity to stay here , please utilize the services of the concierge staff , we so appreciated kathy and her input regarding dining and her efficiency at taking care of every detail . the door - men are so friendly and make a point of asking you how your last evening plans worked out . efficient front desk , ( could have a better ice bucket UNknown - a little slow ) but very friendly staff .
i'll keep it brief . this hotel is in a great location , less than one block from the waldorf astoria , and only a couple of blocks ( 2 min walk ) to nearest subway station . 5 min walk to 5th avenue etc . staff extremely helpful and friendly . we had a one bedroomed suite which was a pretty impressive size , much bigger than other places i've stayed in nyc . if you , like me , are going for a few days break in ny , i'd highly recommend this hotel . once again , the location is ideal .
stayed here for 3 nights upgraded to a junior suit as this included breakfast . the room was small but clean apart from the mini bar which was completely empty and filthy . the bed was lovely and comfortable . UNknown the room was small but whats the big deal its not like your in it much . the noise from the yellow cabs was constant throughout the night but your in new york for heavens sake ! it was a great location with everything within walking distance and a starbucks in the lobby what more could you want . had a great time .
i really liked the location of this hotel and it had a great wine bar , bin 36 , attached to it . although the rooms were comfortable , there was only an end table on one side of the bed and we actually had to call down to the front desk for more soap , i know that sounds  silly buy there was only one bar of soap to share between sink and shower , it will UNknown very quickly . also the house keeper wasn't to keen on giving fresh towels . but overall we had a great time in chicago .
stayed here for one night with some friends for a concert that was in denver . we had a great time , the rooms were big and clean . everyone from check in , housekeeping , room service , and check out were helpful and pleasent to work with . i liked how the rooms were big , you couldn't hear any noise from the street . rooms were UNknown priced , however i wasn't thrilled with a $ 24 parking fee . i think with a paying guest that parking should be less , it was unexpected and i think it's pretty high .
excellent service and comfortable accomodations make this nostalgic hotel among the best in the west . the hotel restaurant and bar was nice , offering salads , soups , and beverages for a steal of a deal . the rooms are cozy with spacious baths and gorgeous views . the lobby and corridors of the hotel are from the bank building's original construction in 1928 . decorative ceiling make this an attraction and great place to stay . the old bank vault is still intact and serves as a meeting room . it's the coolest place and centrally located within the gas lamp district !
i went to celebrate my anniversary with my hubby . the pierre is an exquisite , gorgeous hotel . the staff is very friendly , helpful , and attentive . front desk was very pleasant . they have elevator operators and doormen , and room service workers that make you feel special . the room was clean , beautiful , and had a great view . we had some delicious food , and the turn down service was great . i would definitely recommend this upscale hotel to anyone looking for a special place to relax while staying in the city . loved it .
hotel was in a quiet part of the upper westside . close to shopping and restaurants . the hotel restaurant was closed ( space is vacant ) and they did not note this , so no bar or food inside the hotel and it was a wet cold weekend . also , for $ 500+ a night why do they charge $ 12 . 95 a day for internet . that just doesn't make sense . fitness center was tiny and no towels . they have a 20 $ fee at equinox around the corner , if you want to workout , go there !
fast , friendly and accurate service in the middle of manhattan . when i first arrived i was taken care by mr . ricardo alvarez . my room was not yet ready due to i too early arrival . mr . alvarez took care about the luggage and asked for extra 30 minutes , advised a good bar and when i returned , everything was fixed . good and spacious room . easy access to internet . helpul with tickets to musicals . in all - everything what a " stranger " in new york needs . good location just at the subway station .
first off this is a hotel for people who have little luggage . the hotel has no elevator and the stairs are quite steep . the staff was very rude and not accomodating to our needs . their is no complementary coffee in the morning and no phones in the room to call the front desk . also , the parking garage is a block away so if you have luggage , it is not pleasant to drag it across the street . our television wasn't working and the bedspreads had stains on them . overall , i would not recommend this hotel whatsoever .
the nice hotel staff tries really hard but their service was slow and inconsistent . the room the second day wasn't completely made up . the air conditioning ran all day with doing much to make the room temperature cool . check in was slow and picking up my bags upon leaving was very slow . the art deco style demonstrated an attempt of UNknown a style , but the room was dated and not put together . the large rooms size and location are a plus , but overall i was less than impressed by the overall service and aesthetic of this hotel .
we was so happy with this hotel , the staff were so helpful and very friendly any question was answered for us . if you lucky enough to have angel as your door man just ask him where to eat drink and just about anything you want to do he is your man . the hotel was fantastic the entrance is well wow , our room was really clean and very nice , it was close to everything within walking distance to times square empire state building , subway is really easy to use and not expensive . we had just the best time .
loved it ! the hotel is about two blocks from times square , just a perfect location . the staff was so friendly and helpful . they went out of their way to find us information about the places we wanted to visit . they always greeted us every time we came through the lobby . just very nice staff ! the rooms were super clean , the beds were soooo comfy . we slept like a babies ! the price is right also ! for this price at any other hotel , we would be fighting off cockroaches ! just completely loved everything !
we loved our stay at hotel palomar . the staff is wonderful , kind and always willing to help in whatever you need . the free wine hour every day is a wonderful little bonus . the property is gorgeous and rooms were spacious and very nicely decorated ! the location is perfect near everything you could possibly need and very close to highway access for anything else . the hotel is in a very nice part of dallas and is near many high class shops and UNknown . i highly recommend this place and will definitely return when i'm back in the dallas area
i took my wife for a special get away to this hotel and can tell you that the staff , service , and condition of this hotel are excellent . the front desk was very attentive and did a great job in welcoming us . our room was fantastic and exceptionally clean . the location of this property is in walking distance to most area destinations . we were lucky enough to catch a prime rib special at the hotel bar and it was the best we've ever had . thank you to the management and staff for making our trip special and memorable .
i suggest this hotel on your next stay near the airport . its right across from the airport but what makes this hotel nice is the staff . they are pleasant , smiling , helpful and righ there to help you out . the resturant staff is friendly , nice and fast ! your stay at this hotel will be a pleasant one and the rooms are clean and spacious . i give this hotel a good rating UNknown was comfortable and nice . the airport shuttle is great too and fast ! i will return to this hotel next time i'm in philly .
we cannot reccomend this hotel enough ! great location , excellent staff , UNknown friendly and couldn't do enough to help , nothing was too much trouble . the general manager went out to get us some UNknown for our room ! we thought it was worth the extra for a king room , we like a little more space . having an open cafe bar all day ( free ) was very useful , especially for the dedicated shoppers of the party , who needed to sit quietly with a coffee ! when we come back , it will be to the casablanca .
we weren't bothered by the construction but were surprised that there was a $ 50 charge to use the small fridge in the room . the view was nice and the beds were comfortable . when the kids wanted to use the pool we realized it was going to cost an extra $ 15 per person , so $ 60 for a swim in the pool . $ 10 for internet , $ 55 for parking . so , our deal of $ 116 room actually cost $ UNknown per night . we'll look for somewhere else the next time we go to chicago .
the bijou was fantastic ! it is very colourful , warm , and welcoming . the staff were very nice . we found this place after driving around san francisco , trying to find a centrally located hotel . it is very close to the shopping district and cable cars . it is about one block off a sketchy district which actually made the experience more entertaining then scary . we found it very safe , even to walk back to the hotel at night . we have stayed at other hotels , but so far this one is our favorite . definatly recommended !
i stayed at the hotel indigo with a friend because we were attending a concert in the area . upon arrival the staff was great ! they were very friendly and helped with transportation to the concert . once in the room we ordered room service , assuming it would be some time before they were able to deliver i asked about how long it would be , they told me 20 minutes and it arrived in 15 ! the room was clean and comfortable . this was my second time to stay at this hotel and i will be back in the future !
i've stayed here several times for business and recently stayed here for a vacation with my husband . each stay was very enjoyable . the facilities are clean , the staff is friendly , the ambiance is nice , the rooms are lovely , the bed is amazingly comfortable , and i love the bliss products they provide in the bathrooms . the only thing that would have made my experience better this trip would have been a room on a higher floor , and maybe not paying $ 12 for a beer at the living room ( but it is nyc ! ) .
spent one night in the red shoe suite . upon arriving . valet are eager and welcoming . the lobby and pool areas are beautiful . all help associated with the hotel are pleasant and helpful . special shouts out to the bartender in the pool area . decor is plush and opulent . very impressed with this hotel . the red shoe suite was beautiful and was stocked with everything to make our stay a memorable occasion . maybe a little pricey but they have other rooms available . this was a great stay and when in dallas i will stay here again .
this is the third time we have stayed at the downtown denver ramada , we are very please with each stay . the rooms are comfortable and for the most part clean . this trip i wore my socks in the room , don't think it was super clean . sorry yuck ! other than that we loved it is close to downtown , no extra fees for parking which is normal for downtown denver upwards of $ 25 extra in parking fees . the staff is always friendly and the price is right for a quick out of town get away for us .
i only stayed here one night , but i was really impressed . the grounds and public areas are very well maintained and beautiful . my room was spacious and well - appointed . the pool area was beautiful . the health club was one of the best i've ever used in a hotel - every machine known to human kind seemed to be there and all of the latest models . i can't really comment on the price / value ratio as i didn't pick up the tab and don't know what a room costs there , but i'm sure it's a lot .
excellent hotel and great experience . the room was small for a hotel room in general but big for one in new york . very clean , the staff were very good at changing towels etc . fantastic location , great to be so close to times square and all the sights . the restaurant attached to the hotel was really good , great value and fantastic service . there is a great organic food shop really close to the hotel that sells really nice fresh food for a great price . overall a fantastic hotel and location and would defiantly stay here again .
the air conditioner in our first room didn't work . the hotel staff was nice about it as they allowed us to move to a different room the next day . the rooms are comfortable , rather big ( for this price range ) and have nice high ceilings . the catch with the rooms is that the receive a fair amount of street noise from 3rd avenue if the windows are closed . the hotel is located for easy access to the gramercy park area . if you need a place to stay in this area , you could do a lot worse .
campton was listed on a conference hotel list , and i selected it without knowing much about it - other than it's great location . i was pleasantly surprised to be staying at a beautiful property just off of union square , and staffed with employees who consistently treated you as their top priority . campton was a nice change from the hustle and bustle of a large chain hotel such as a hyatt or marriott . the lobby is small but welcoming . when arriving back from conference sessions or business dinners - i felt like i was coming home . well done .
the room was very nice and clean and renovated . ( maybe it helps to be a starwood guest ) obviously the rooms are going to be a bit smaller being in a city . we had a fabulous view of downtown looking towards dodger stadium . the rooms also had the great beds and good sheets . the staff was very nice , informative and helpful . the parking was $ 32 / night but you are going to pay at least that anywhere else for an overnight in the city . the lobby is a bit cold and in need of updating .
the hotel is large are is primarily design for conventions . however the rooms are not much better than an old holiday inn . the linens were stained and wallpaper peeling everywhere . the beds were not very comfortable . the hotel looks to have been built back in the 70's . the convention facilities appear to have recently got attention but the rooms are in desparate need of help . additionally , the rooms as part of the conference were priced at $ 240 . 00 a night and were definitely not worth it . the gift shop and restaurant prices were obscene !
a great place to stay for travelers with pets ! the manager and his staff are very friendly and happy to help their guests have a great time while in indy . the grounds are well kept and well light for night time dog walks . rooms are private , clean , and surprisingly large . the kitchen is very handy when traveling with a pet . the location is wonderful for shopping and great food . there are many motels in this area to chose from , but here at townplace suites , the entire staff is focused on making your stay enjoyable .
i booked two rooms through hotwire , after taxes it cost $ 150 per room per night . it was on campus at the south end , nearly downtown , about 5 block walk to the capitol . the valet parking was a bit expensive at $ 24 , but was quick and efficient . all the staff were friendly and helpful . the room was quiet and comfortable . the place was full during a football weekend , but the crowd did not cause any breakdown of good service . it is a good place to stay for anyone visiting u . texas .
this little place is a real gem ! everyone working here , especially the owner jay is not only friendly but helpful , informative and sweet ! the rooms have a nice personal touch , and it's the smallest of things that make you feel safe , comfortable and right at home . its very clean and has all you need from a hotel ( ie toiletries , storage space , comfy bed , hot shower , fluffy towels , tv channels ) breakfast was ample , hearty and delicious ! plus , this place is literally 20 steps from the subway . perfect !
this hotel has gorgeous rooms and a great location . the problems come into play in management of the volume of people that stay at the hotel . we waited 1 . 5 hours to check in to the hotel . the gm wrote me and dismissed this problem saying the average wait time is 15 minutes . be prepared to wait from 30 minutes to an hour if you arrive at the 3pm checkin time . the elevator issue is being fixed in the near future but for now be prepared to wait to get from the 8th floor lobby to street level .
we flew on 13th october 07 and stayed for 2 weeks . the place was clean and friendly . if you want a fridge / microwave , they will put one in the room for you ( no extra cost ) . the area itself is great , everything there and the main interstate is 5 mins away were you can travel east to the cost ( 25mins ) or straight down to orlando ( 2 . UNknown ) . will definately go back as it's not a touristy as orlando and the people are so friendly , they can't do enough for you .
if you are looking for a clean , no frills hotel in a super location in downtown chicago , you have found it . the rooms are just as pictured . they are nice and clean , comfortable beds - you don't get robes and all the nicer things of 4 star hotels - but if you don't need that you will love it . if you are looking for more glamourous you may try elsewhere , but we liked it and the front desk was very friendly . we felt very safe with our family . we would definately consider this hotel again .
stayed during a conference . problem with the hotel testing their announcements and UNknown during our conference sessions which was unpleasant . a little out of the way but they do have shuttles to faneuil hall and such . note that the shuttle is really a large suv and can only accommodate about 6 or 7 people . be early and get in or you will have to wait a 1 / 2 hour for the next . did a prepay online at spg and saved almost 100 dollars on the price . was even given a beautiful room overlooking the city and harbour !
this hotel is in a wonderful location for sightseeing , shopping , walking to good restaurants , etc . the employees are very cordial and eager to help you with hotel procedures , find any information you need about chicago , and do that extra thing that makes your day easier . even though my husband and i could be their parents they showed no age bias or UNknown with us . the breakfast buffet has a good selection and is served on each floor , and the evening reception is a nice way to wind down . i would definitely recommend the amalfi .
stayed at this hotel while in nyc for a wedding . room was oversized for the city UNknown had its own separate living room . room was extremely quiet which is a big plus . check in was efficient and pleasant . restaurant off lobby is very attractive and not crowded . didnt eat breakfast so not sure what thats like . location is excellent - close to subway this is not an exciting place to be however and the bathrooms UNknown are dated . the omni berkshire place whcih is very close by and comparable price - wise is probably a better choice .
would definitely recommend this hotel . we had the most basic room ( i think ) , but the decor was lovely , with a large terrace that we would have made much more use of had it not been november ! very central , so we were able to walk everywhere we wanted to go to , and we relly enjoyed walking around the stalls on bryant park immediately outside the hotel . would have made use of the nice looking hotel bar , and the ice rink outside had i not been pregnant ! lots of lovely cafes very nearby for breakfast .
lovely high comfy beds , rooms were so quiet when there was so much noise on the streets below ! , great nights sleep in crisp white bed covers with a fluffy quilt ! great baths , the water ran quick and clean . did not try the resturant or coffee shop , deli right across the road and so so close to times square . the subway is right outside too ! sometimes theres a bit of a line checking in i noticed but not the case for me . the staff are helpful in booking any shows etc . go and enjoy !
my company had our holiday party at the liberty last thursday night and i have to say that everything was top notch . i've heard nothing but great things from guests who attended the party - the food , the ballroom , the quality of service , the entertainment was all excellent . UNknown , liz , and the rest of the staff were patient and accommodating from start to finish - every request i had along the way was met . thank you to all the staff for making our party such a huge success ! we will be back ! : - )
i went ot the hilton lax to surprise my wife who was on an international flight and had an overnight layover there . it is close to lax and there is a 24 hour shuttle . the pool i have to say is not deep and is smaller than the pictures suggest . everything else was fine . it is close to the airport so i would not want to spend a week there but i would stay again for a short time . it sure beats sleeping in the airport . i would not consider a resort kind of hotel but it was fine
this little hotel is our fantastic find and truly a gem ! i find some reviews here which are truly whiners and UNknown and not genuine experiences . we spent a week from 2 - 9 july celebrating our anniversary and birthdays . always made us feel welcome ! just wanted to let you know we're hoping to stay again in the future and we highly recommend it . thanks so much again ! thanks especially to UNknown and your guest / room service staff ( you know what delivering customer service is and that's what makes the difference . ) kudos to all !
this was my first visit at this location , it was late and i was extremly tired . the front desk staff , ( ryan ) started the transition of turning an exhausted moment into a wonderful experience . UNknown did an outstanding job with us , very patient , proficient and professional . once getting in our rooms the experience was shear relaxation . the room was beautiful and the beds were very comfortable . i had not had decent sleep in three nights , due to moving . thanks to this hotel , i was able to have a great night rest .
just come back after 4 nights in a snowy new york . this was our fourth time in nyc and a different hotel . all staff were friendly and courteous and always greeted us with a hello . rooms spotless and very comfortable . bathroom on the small side but the lovely shower made up for this . complimentary breakfast was a great start to a day walking around manhatten . did not eat in restaurant but food smelled lovely and bar was lively and a great place to relax after a days sightseeing and shopping ! thanks morgans for a great nyc break .
i tried staying across the street but that motel wouldnt let me due to my credit card not UNknown for their amount requested . i went across the street the price was $ 20+ lower the room was real clean ( more than expected ) . i thought my bed was hard and lumpy but the pillows made up for it . it was quiet worth the 79 . 99 i paid ( no discounts ) . the location is convient and the staff was courtesy towards me . there was a continental breakfast but i did not indulge . the heater worked excellent !
hi there i checked on this page everyday for the last 2 weeks in the run up to my trip from the 2nd to the 7th of feb and i found it very useful , bar a couple negative reviews they were mostly positive and it couldn't have helped more . well my stay was no different from the others , amazing location , maintained bedroom , friendly staff and a great experience for a lone traveller . i would definitely recommend this hotel to someone else in the future and i do plan on staying there again the next time i visit nyc !
we wanted to stay in new york for 3 days but not pay a high price and still have something comfortable . we found our room to be very clean and comfortable and when we did have a minor issue with the plumbing 2 maintenance staff promptly came and fixed it . all the staff were very friendly and helpful and there were plenty of places nearby to choose from to go for a meal . we also joined in on the " happy hour " in the club room lounge and enjoyed the nibbles and drinks . our bed was huge and comfortable .
stayed at the onyx hotel memorial day weekend 2004 . located down the street from the fleet center and near faneuil hall , our room was on the small side but interestingly decorated ( think w hotel ) with a great bed and a down comforter . bathroom is well done with a huge sink and great shower . the front desk told us the hotel just opened 10 days ago and they are still tuning - we had to ask to have a light bulb replaced in the bathroom , a lamp fixed , the tv sound repaired and for a luggage rack .
excellent hotel . located on a lovely and quiet street during week ends , the room was very clean , the continental breakfast is relatively high class and the street in the back is filled with nice restaurants where we ate UNknown on the street . the wall street subway station is close by and if you are in a spiritual mood , trinity church is within short walking distance with its talented choir . a great affordable european - style stop in new york , mostly if you like new york but aren't crazy about police and ambulance sirens . we'll be back !
very nice - very clean - excellent location for shopping , dinning and playing in easton . husband was at a conference and the kids and i played . we were all impressed . the decor was a bit stuffy and formal for our tastes but nicely done regardless ( minus the somewhat scary paper that ran down the long corridors ) . staff was very friendly and helpful . they offered our children and i early check - in and late check out to boot . the pool area was beautiful and well maintained . hope we have the opportunity to visit again .
stayed there 2 UNknown - 14 - through 9 - 15 - 11 . had no hot water on 9 - 14 or in the am of 9 - 15 when i checked out . i could not get the front desk on the phone in the room no one would answer . so i called on my cell to ask about the hot water . i was told it would be fixed . but the next am still no hot water . several rooms were without hot water . i was told the the gm would contact me . and he never did .
staff very friendly and helpful , room was clean and comfortable , interesting choice of pillow types , we tried the magnetic ones for neck pain . room was clean and modern . we had 1 room , with king size bed , very comfortable , and a pull out sofa bed , which the teenagers seemed ok with . small work space . with desk and fridge . a good size room for nyc . about 5 blocks south of times square , near subway , penn station ( both 1 block ) . would defintiely stay here again and recommend to others .
our experience at the sheraton chicago hotel & towers was excellent . the staff was exceptional from the start and UNknown provided much assistance . from the greeting by the doorman and the valet . to the gentleman rick who was excellent in registering me and UNknown me with the starwood preferred services . all staff was friendly and went out of their way to provide assistance . the rooms and pool area was clean and had a great view and including the excellent room service . overall , we had a great time and look forward to visiting other properties of starwood hotels .
my 17 yr old daughter and myself spent 5 nights at the hotel and enjoyed everything about it . the staff could not of been more helpful and friendly . the atmosphere was very relaxed and the continental breakfast , free coffee , cookies and wine made it very homely . the location is idea for getting around with the cable car at powell st and the bart only a short walk away . having china town on your door step was great , very handy for a excellent takeout . i would highly recommend the hotel and look forward to staying there again .
myself and 2 sisters booked a shopping trip , we were booked into the pennsylvannia a few doors away , hotel from hell that was , anyway we got moved to the affinia , oh my god it was absolutley wonderful , the room was so clean , the staff so helpful and what a relief to sleep in comfort after a night of staying awake wrapped in your coat at the other hotel as the room and bed linen was to filthy to lay on . thank you affinia , we will be back , such a lovely hotel and such lovely people .
this place needs a serious refurbishment , which i believe is taking place soon . rooms had peeling wallpaper , old tvs , poor drainage , bad carpet and basic furniture . however , the staff were great , especially at breakfast . they made us feel welcome every time we returned from sight - seeing . the location is indeed fantastic , as many reviewers have mentioned , so if you want to be in walking distance to many key attractions , this isn't a bad choice . are there better options ? yes , but you'll have to pay in this city .
stayed overnight on valentine's weekend with my husband . our suite was clean , quiet and very comfortable . the staff was polite and helpful . it was an easy walk to the mall for sightseeing . chinatown is only a few blocks away . shopping and dining is within a quick walk also . the only complaint i had was the breakfast was so crowded the staff was unable to clean tables off fast enough to seat more people . they were trying though ! overall we had a fantastic stay and would definitely stay again because you can not beat this location !
went to new york for my birthday , the hotel had chocolates in the room for us . the room ws geat we were on the 10th floor . the food was sort of okay , the eggs had no taste . must be watching out for those that shouldn't have salt . the crew was so helpful . my husband went down to flower shop down the street the morning of my birthday and the front desk was kind enough to find a beautiful vase for the roses , i got ! overall , it was very nice and we will come back .
i stayed here for 2 nights in oct 2011 and one night they had a drunk guest in the hallway yelling . it was taken care of quickly . i stayed again for 1 night in may 2012 and it was a wonderful experience . we UNknown that the pool was indoor . the desk clerk is friendly  the downside of the hotel is they seem to allow a few guests to " live " there and the children were constantly wondering the hallway . and the carpet could be shampooed but other that than for the price it was a good experience .
not what we have all come to expect from an airport hotel which tend to be convinient but tired in many ways . the grand hyatt dallas was a wonderful experience all the way around . the quality and finish of the rooms and public spaces are right up there with some of the better downtown facilities . we would highly recommend for a stay over or more . the staff was absolutely incredible they deserve " 6 stars " . room service food was great as was the quality in the lobby restaurant . loved it and a pleasant surprise - well done .
i confess that this was the first time i had ever booked a radisson hotel ( there was a great deal online for this reservation ) , so i didn't know what to expect , but this hotel was a wonderful surprise ! from the moment that i arrived , all the staff members were helpful , knowledgeable , and went out of their way to make my stay easier . the valet parking was convenient , and the food that i ate in the hotel restaurant / lounge was delicious . i would definitely choose this hotel again when traveling out of lax .
this hotel is a refurbished older hotel but with good services . employees were friendly and helpful . it is located in the theater district within in a couple of blocks of the boston commons and the beginning of the " freedom trail . " a subway stop to the rest of the city is also located at the commons . rooms were small but reasonable . since i am tall the bathroom fixtures were set a little low for me . concierge was informed and very helpful . now that i am familiar with the city , i would definitely stay here again .
service - 5 - star quality ! sam - a shift manager - made a lot of compelling complementary offers that smooth my stay . facility - very new and worth every dollar ! distance from the airport - 5 - 10 minutes cost of shuttle - free ! i saved $ 20 since the hotel managed this for me . environment - safe and sound overall , this is a recommended hotel if you happen to be in phoenix downtown . i have traveled over the world in the last decade . this place is one of the most impressive i have been .
the motel is in a great location ! just across the street is the beautiful harbour and is located near several inexpensive restaurants . right after i arrived the motel owner came to my room to welcome me . following each night i was there , i was given a ride to the mcrd by the owner . they are the motel with a heart ! the rooms are small , but very clean and well kept . i would definitely stay with them again if i am ever in town . a special thank you to the whole staff , you were wonderful !
stayed here for the ravens - panthers football game . the hotel was in an ideal location for everything the city has to offer . short walks to resturants and stadium . the check in time was 3pm but we asked if we could check in early before the game started so we wouldnt have to worry about it later . they were more than helpful and found us a room at 9am . very nice updated furniture and lobby . bathroom was a little small , but was updated and performed its task well . parking was also easy to find and use .
this very expensive room was clearly a single , with almost no floor space , no chest of drawers , and only the radiator on which to balance a suitcase . the wall - hung tv screen is at right angles to the bed , so one can't watch while in bed , only from the one comfortable chair across the room . normally we enjoy breakfast in a hotel room , but not here ; we didn't even try . we supposedly had a special deal ; i can't imagine what they usually charge for this room - or who would pay it !
room was good , poor that no in room safe nor fridge were provided , when we asked we were advised that there was not a fridge for every room and we might have got one if we were staying longer . reception ranged from being good to totally disinterested , bell service was poor . buffet breakfast is included in the price , it is quite good and the staff are excellent . i reccomend UNknown place indian across from the hotel and UNknown pub in sansom st for good cheap eats . free internet computers are available for those travelling without laptops .
i've stayed here a number of times during anime expo and other various events and i just can't find anything wrong with it ( other than the $ 40 / night valet parking fees - are ya kidding me ) ? service has been impeccable each visit , the rooms are cleans and very comfortable and the while place just screams class and elegance . it's not the best jw i've seen , but it definitely ranks up there . i will definitely return every year for as long as anime expo and the rock n roll los angeles 1 / 2 marathon remains .
not a review yet since we still have to arrive but since we will be arriving here this thursday coming in from holland to stay for 6 nights just a short note to say that we are very much looking forward to it after having read all this reviews . we booked the hotel due to the reviews here for my birthday which was this sunday and are happy to see that it is still going strong especially since it is our first visit . so jennifer and all here we come to enjoy ourselves and will defenitely post a review after our visit .
this was a well maintained lodge that was within walking distance to the comerica center where our concert was . it was close to downtown as well . the rooms were clean , the beds were comfortable and the hallways were quiet at night . water pressure in the showers were fine . overall , it is a great place to stay at a really great price . we were later informed by locals that the lodge is not located in the safest area , however we did not see anything that alarmed us or caused us to worry about our car / possessions .
the woodfin suites in san diego is everything you want in an establishment . if you need anything the staff will make it happen before you can ask a second time . the rooms are more than special . if you wanted to save some money on a slow night you can cook right in your room or you could go to there amazing resturant that never has the same thing twice . in other words if you have a chance to stay at the woodfin jump on it . you won't be dissapointed and you will always compare future hotels against the woodfin .
i stayed at this hotel during a stop - over en route home from europe . the location is terrific , smack in the west village , with a subway stop just at the corner that links you to just about anywhere you may need to go , including to jfk airport . the staff was very friendly , the room clean and comfortable . the breakfast in the village north restaurant in the basement of the hotel was better then expected , fruit , coffe , juice , and pastry selection . this was my second stay and will not be my last .
we stayed at this inn for 2 nights in october . we had gone to memphis to see graceland . this is a very nice hotel - i like hampton inns because they have the white duvets on the comforters and everything always seems very clean . they put out a pretty decent breakfast buffet in the mornings also . this hotel is just one block from beale st . and you can hear the music at night ; we had a courtyard side room so it wasn't too bad . overall - l liked it very much and would definitely stay there again .
everything about this hotel was well - done . the lobby , the room , the pool , and the restaurant was just excellent . the check in , the check out , the advice of the valet was great . a few street people and drunks , but it was the 500 weekend . i did not like the $ 24 day parking fee ( you have no choice if you have a rental car ) , but the internet was free . the almost $ 50 a night indiana taxes was a bit of a bummer , but what can you do .
stayed here for 2 nights towards the end of october for work . i had training classes that were nearby . this is a good location in the denver tech center . you are within walking distance to several different dining options . the hotel was great and i would stay here again . the rooms and facility were very clean . the bed was comfortable . i used the gym and the treadmill worked just fine . my package included breakfast each day , which was great . they had a made to order omelet station , fresh fruit , pastries , etc .
have just spent 5 nights in new york and it was everything UNknown it would be . loved the buzz of the place and all the attractions . the new yorker hotel had a great location , the rooms were clean , if a little on the small side ( but fine as it was just for sleeping UNknown , the hotel staff were friendly and polite . we liked the security of asking for room keys to be shown before accessing the lifts . the tick tock diner below the hotel is highly recommended , particularly for breakfasts . will definitely be returning .
after finding out that there was no a / c at the belltown inn , we had to search immediately to find a room just for the day as we were flying out on the red eye late in the evening . this hotel was very accomodating . the front desk service was great and stored our bag til the room was ready . they offered to help with our luggage , gave us the closest room since we were only there for the day . the room was comfy and clean . would highly recommend for the money and would stay here again .
stayed 4 nights in the library hotel and found the staff to be very friendly and helpful , its in a great location , near to shops , grand central and theatre district . the room was very small but clean and well equiped , daily breakfasts , 24 hr coffee / tea and drinks with cheese were all great . the resturant madison & vine on the ground floor was excellent and we ate there twice , both times for lunch ( on arrival and waiting for airport pick - up ) food was good and it was busy with a good atmosphere .
former circa 1930's apartment building , converted to cozy hotel . the presidential suite was very roomy , with separate living - room and small kitchenette with " stocked " UNknown . nice view from our room . a few ambulances were heard in the night , but noise was UNknown . front desk , friendly , bellmen very friendly , very helpful . didn't eat at the restaurant that is adjacent , but it looked nice . had to walk a little to get breakfast . all in all a great hotel , especially if you are wanting to be close to gwu .
stayed here over thanksgiving 2012 . couldn't ask for a better location in nyc . huge ( for ny standards ) room , free wifi , plethora of charging stations in the room , free bottled water , beautiful view of rockerfeller plaza ! very nice staff , too . i'd give it a 5 , but we were moved from our original club quarters wtc to the one on wall st , then here due to sandy , and they didn't do the best job of communicating that to us which was a hassle when we arrived . great value for your $ !
arrived early and was able to store luggage and park car . staff was friendly and helpful . room was clean and quiet - bed comfortable - flat screen television and walk - in shower . great location to millenium park and art institue as well as other sights . we stayed on the 8th floor - no elevator on that floor - you had to take the elevator to the 7th and walk up stairs to room . a pain with luggage when leaving . try to stay on another floor . we took advantage of a parking package - on their website .
this had to be one of the worst night UNknown you could ever have . the street noise is non stop and most of the outlets in the hotel don't work . if you do stay maybe some of the rooms aren't as noisy but ask to not get a room near the street . also there is no elevator and i wa out in the forth floor with a super heavy big bag and it was such a pain to even get to my room . its convenient , but spend an extra few dollars if you can , and skip this place .
this was a mini - vacation trip and we decided to experience the talbott hotel during one of our frequent visits to downtown chicago . and a perfect experience it was ! friendly and accomodating staff and service ! our room was located on one of the upper floors , and it was extremely comfortable , and had a kind of " old world charm " . huge plasma tv with capabilities to connect / work to your personal computer . fabulous bathroom . perfect for romance or busines . within walking distance to all the joys of downtown chicago ! not one complaint !
i have stayed at this hotel ( which is a residence hotel ) for over a dozen years . what brings me back for so long is the fabulous service and value . mary at the front desk has been there longer that i have been going there . the entire staff is very attentive . when you stay here you are getting an apartment . i have experienced both the studio and the one bedroom units . all have been recently renovated . basically we love this hotel and it's location on the upper west side less that two blocks from the subway .
my husband , son ( 7 yrs ) and i stayed at the w in times square for 2 nights in early august . the service was excellent - very friendly and attentive ( without being in your face ) . we stayed on the 50th floor and had a great view straight down broadway . the room was very quiet and comfortable - the beds were so cozy ! we enjoyed dinner at the hotel restaurant one evening . the food was excellent - the sushi was particularly good . we will definitely consider staying there again on our next visit to nyc .
we had a two - bedroom suite / apartment for two nights over july 4 - with a perfect view of the navy pier fireworks . this hotel is perfectly situated - great part of town , the bellmen were friendly and professional , the concierge helpful and available . the in - room coffee included nespresso and a german brand of filter coffee that may be even better than illy . the interior is crisp , modern , yet warm . we ate in the restaurant , which did not live up to its price and reputation . but that's a different review !
our car had problems outside the hilton and barry from the hilton came over and asked if he could help us . barry brought over his car and was able to jump our car to get it started . otherwise we would have been stranded in downtown boston with a dead car . barry was extremely helpful and went out of his way to help us . UNknown service is a great reflection on the hilton . i would recommend this hilton based on UNknown service . this was top rated service to help someone in distress . thanks to barry for his help !
stayed 3 nights , great location for business or leisure , comfortable bed , great staff , 5th floor restaurant was great , nice wine list . just a word of caution , i was in the corner king on floor 5 and the cable car , street noise was a bit much - also the old navy was doing some major construction early in the mornings - not sure how long that will continue but i UNknown the higher floor rooms on 9 - all in all a great hotel , stayed at the intercontinental last trip and i like the palomar better .
nice hotel , but not so much - it's just off on the little things . check - in to your room is through the bar area , never did get a hot shower - five minute warm up time for the warm / hot water , messed up room service order twice , half - effort on housekeeping - some stuff clean , some not , and then food menus out that they aren't servicing . business - wise , meeting functions in foyers , random tables and meeting stuff laying around the mezzanine level . anyways , it just wasn't all that .
we stayed at trump towers in october . from the time we walked in the door the staff was always very friendly and willing to go above the call of duty on their own . we got a suite which was pricey but i hate staying in hotels ( never comfortable with sleeping in the beds or using the bathrooms ) but as soon as i got into bed the first night i felt like i was a home in my own bed ! the bathroom and the kitchen were stocked with anything you could possibly need ! you can't go wrong staying here !
this hotel is eclectic ! fun carpets , great walls , nooks and crannies ! nick checked us in , and was extremely gracious . the doorman was extremely gracious . the bellman was too . we are on a 10 day family road trip , and have had several bad - smelling hotels . i explained that i would have to come up and smell the room - and it is fantastic . and it is clean ! my son with allergies will not have problems breathing tonight . we will be coming back to this hotel , and trying other kimpton hotels .
it is delightful to be right on the water at this hotel . sitting in front of the fire looking out to the sound on a rainy day is delightful . rooms ar comfortable if a bit odd in having a mountain lodge theme replete with teddy bears . service is terrible and it is a long way and a long hike up hill from anything one might want to do in seattle . pricey for what you get - there are plenty of fabulous hotels for the same rate or less in this great town . but hey ! the beatles stayed here .
booked this hotel last minute for a great price on priceline . we arrived at 4 : 30 and were told a room would not be available for two hours ! no apologies , no sympathy and not an ounce of politeness . when we finally got our room , we were pleased to find a clean good sized room . you cannot beat the airport location where you do not even have to go outside to enter the airport . checkout was just as unfriendly and cold . if it were not for the poor customer service this could be a great hotel .
excellent from early check in to check out . arrived friday post alaska cruise at 10 am , not expecting room so early , but just wishing to stow baggage . receptionist not only made room available , but because the room type i had reserved was not yet ready , she upgraded us gratis . top notch staff at front desk . hotel exceptionally clean , well styled . loved having microwave and refrigerator in room . just a block to seattle center and a nice half hour walk to pike's place market . highly recommend and will stay again when in seattle .
stayed here at the end of june and found it to be a perfect spot for a family with small kids to relax at night or in the middle of the day to regroup . first thing to know - this courtyard marriott is on 3rd avenue in between 51st and 52nd streets , so you are out of the hustle and bustle of the times square area . however , everything is a short walk or cab ride away . we walked , with an 8 and 5 year old , to central park , rockefeller center , bloomingdale's and fao schwarz , and several close by diners . we took cab rides to our boat and bus tours . second , the rooms are big by new york standards . we had 2 queen size beds and plenty of room to move around . third , there is no glitz factor , lobby is basic but that wasn't what we were looking for or paying for . lastly , it has a decent health club to get a morning workout . all the staff , with the exception of one surly concierge were helpful and friendly .
we booked a room with king bed on their website . however , when we checked in , they gave us a queen bed . we went arguing with the person at the checkin counter , he said according to his computer , that's the room assigned to us . even though the price shown in his computer is exactly the price for king bed on their website , he refused to change the room for us and told us if we want to change to king bed , we have to pay more . since we don't want to pay more , we stay in the same room . when we checked out , we said since we were staying in the queen bed room , we shall only pay the price for queen bed . still , the person insisted that we have to pay the price shown on his computer ( the price for king bed ) and we have to call the manager for the adjustment when the manager come back a few days later . so , please be careful . their website is a cheat ! and their personnel is not helpful .
i would probably rate the hotel 4 . 5 stars if i could . and as far as value for money , it was outstanding . i got the room on hotwire ( hoping it would be a different kimpton hotel ) , and was not disappointed . sure , the hotel is a little tired ( only a little ) , but i and my ( 21 yr old ) son loved the 60's design . not only that , but the building has character and is well located ( if not dead - in - the - centre , even at rack rates , the five minute taxis downtown could still not add up to the downtown rates ) . service typical for dc . efficient , welcoming , but not over the top . the bar was really good , and breakfast was ok ( shame they don't include it in the rate ) . i will definitely go back . if you want a hotel with character in a good location in dc at these prices , then this is should be your choice . assuming you understand the concept of a boutique hotel .
this hotel was unusual but not in an entirely bad way . the hotel itself was good - fair . one one hand , customer service was friendly , helpful , and proactive . the rooms , too , were clean and odor free . on the other hand , the walls are rather thin so room - to - room noise was occasionally noticeable and outdoor noise was very noticeable . also , road access to / from the hotel is a little confusing at first . i would definitely agree with other posts here that if you go out for the evening that you return on the early side because parking here is at a premium . the overall " feel " of the hotel's surroundings goes two ways too : the immediate neighborhood that the hotel is in features at least 3 strip joints ; but the next street over ( sports arena blvd . ) has numerous family - oriented restaurants . access to other parts of san diego is excellent being basically at the intersection of i - 8 and i - 5 . the greatest walkable attraction is old town san diego .
we were booked in this hotel not by choice for a school field trip . they ran out of clean towels the first day and did not give us enough clean sheets for the pull out sofa . the pull out sofa was supposed to be a second bed . we were in for a shock when two moms and two kids were not given a room with two double beds . there was a hole in the wall in the stairway , the toilet had brown streaks in the bottom , there was no plug for the bath tub and the shower UNknown when the hot water was on . the continental breakfast was pre - packaged muffins , a gallon of milk resting in an ice water bath , containers of fruit loops , coffee and juice . there was no fruit or yogurt and no one came to clean up the milk spills . the entire hotel was in a state of disrepair . there were scuff marks and dirt everywhere and a general state of uncleanliness . i would not stay in this chain ever again . we were UNknown the place the UNknown .
my wife and i stayed at the renaissance for five nights recently . we were there for a convention . overall , a nice hotel . our 15th floor room had nice bedding and linens . the indoor pool and whirlpool were nice . there's free wireless in the lobby and bar areas ( although they don't UNknown it ) . check - in was a breeze . granted , i checked in at noon and it wasn't busy . i did notice a line later in the afternoon . i liked the free coffee / tea / hot chocolate offer when i ordered wake up service . they deliver both the local newspaper and the usa today . food - wise , we ate breakfast at charlie's in the hotel . not bad , but typical hotel pricey . we ate there twice . locationwise , the hotel is the first stop from sea - tac airport on the downtown airporter bus . the metro bus UNknown stops right outside which is a pleasure compared to walking uphill from the city center . overall , a nice stay . i'd definitely consider it for a future visit .
we stayed at the seattle airport red roof inn for one night in may as a stopover to our final destination . the facility seemed older and in need of updating , but nothing was dirty or broken - the carpet in the hallways just seemed a bit worn . we arrived late but there were still a few parking spaces left in the lot . our room had two very comfortable queen sized beds , a table with chairs , a tv and a UNknown type dresser . there was a hair dryer and shampoo , but no other in - room amenities . our room did not smell like smoke at all . we didn't use the air conditioner / heater , but the shower worked well and the water was hot . t - mobile wireless internet access was available for a fee ; we brought our own laptop and bought a day pass for t - mobile , and it worked out very well . overall i don't have any real complaints about this place . it isn't a luxury hotel but it's adequate , and for the price , we were not disappointed .
my wife and i simply wanted to get out of town for a couple days . away from the kids , away from the pets , away from our worries . i did some quick research online and on frommer's ( never again ) and chose to stay at a suite at the canterbury hotel . within 10 minutes of arriving at the canterbury , my wife and i were so disappointed . no . UNknown at the rude service ( valet parking attendants & front desk ) , small , dirty and smelly suite , and cramped feel , that we immediately got back online and contacted the conrad . the conrad was able to get us into a beautiful corner suite on short notice , the service was marvelous from the first phone contact to the time we left , we chose some of the spa services at spa UNknown ( delightful ) , and had lunch one day at the capital grille ( very good ) . we both thoroughly relaxed and will stay at the conrad again when we return to indy . all in all , our experience couldn't have been any better .
stayed here on the 12th november for 4 nights . having previously stayed at the hampton on 8th ave i thought i would try something closer to times square . i found this hotel on trip advisor and gave it a go . i was pleasantly surprised with the good room size , clean rooms , complimentary breakfast and friendly staff . only downside was the typical high cost of ny accommodation but it is new york after all and that is why we keep coming back . the location was great as i was only a few blocks from times square and across the road from the port authority bus station . you can catch the nyc airporter shuttle from the airport ( $ 16 . 50 ) to the bus station and walk across the road to the hotel . we also caught a transit authority bus to jersey gardens outlet shopping for $ 6 . 50 one way . great day of outlet shopping . there is a subway station on the same street which we used to go to wall street . would certainly consider staying here again if i came back to ny .
we stayed at this hotel for 2 nights , prior to a job interview . the hotel was selected by the company interviewing my husband , so we had no idea what we were going to get . i was pleasantly surprised at the accommodation . the room was spacious , the bed , very comfortable , the service was very good and we loved the location . the hotel backs up to a green way with a paved trail for walking , running and cycling . an it is enjoyed by many . we loved the path which was well marked and the area . the treadmills in the work out facility were the best i have been on . the hotel appears very new and clean . the only issue i had was the noise from the room upstairs ( young kids ) lasted well into the night and was very disruptive to our sleep . i am sure if we had called the desk , they would have made every effort to remedy , but since my husband finally got to sleep in spite of it , i chose to not disturb him by calling .
i travel often for business and never have i experienced terrible customer service like this ! my room wasn't ready so i checked my bags with the porter like i always do . when i returned from my meeting they could not find my luggage . the UNknown director said he would review the UNknown . the next morning my bags were still not located so he advised to shop for what i needed and they would reimburse me . bottom line is it has been over 60 days and i have not recieved any form of resolution . my persistent followup with their insurance company and the hotel finally resulted in them advising me nyc has a limit of $ 100 in the event they lose your bag . so i am out of $ 5000 worth of items in my luggage as well as items purchased as a result of their incompetence and my only recourse is to take them to court . i have also contacted the attorney general as well as the ceo of crowne plaza ! if you stay at crown plaza in nyc please do not leave your bags with the UNknown !
i stayed at candlewood at the end of july this year . i really liked the staff and hotel in general , it has a good feel to it with well appointed and fairly large rooms . the staff were great and we asked for a high room and got one with some views of the empire state building . the rooms were clean and the hotel has some great touches like they free wifi , coffee and laundry for guests . it is located in a fairly busy area . we came in from newark to port authority and were blown away with how busy 8th avenue was even outside commuter times . the hotel is not directly on 8th avenue which does help but the area is very crowded with some colourful characters around ! that said we always felt safe even at night . we ended our stay at the affinia shelburne in murray hill . the shelburne is in a better area but twice the price . candlewood is fantastic for a longer stay in a budget but shelburne for a bit of luxury in good area ! thanks candlewood for a great stay !
i stayed with 2 other friends in one room in the georgetown suites which was spacious and very clean . the main point of attraction for this hotel was its location , as it was only a relatively short walk to the tourist parts of the city , namely UNknown ave . the room itself had a very comfortable couch ( good enough to fall asleep on ) and the double bed in the bedroom was more like a triple bed . very large and very comfortable the breakfast was also a very high standard and was included in the price . cereals , fruit , yoghurt , juices , tea & coffee and croissants and other pastry things . one thing that happened to us was after visiting the white house , our room keys became UNknown by some sort of invisible laser UNknown system which meant we had to go and have our room keys reset at reception . hardly a major upset , but worth remembering if your planning to go there . i would have no hesitation in recommending this hotel to anyone , and would stay there again if i return to dc .
last year in january , i stayed at this hotel and i vowed never to stay again . although the staff was okay , the hotel itself was horrible . my secretary booked me at this hotel because other area hotels refused my state rate . i must say i was not very pleased until i arrived there . from the moment i walked in , it was obvious something was different . the hotel has changed and looks great ! i am especially fond of the colors , decor and restaurant ! most impressed was that there is actually a putting green on property ! my room was nice , clean and quiet and the staff was very very friendly . i reviewed this hotel last year after they put me in an exterior room , and it was not a very positive review , but this time around , i must say , i am quite pleased at the changes , i like that they no longer have exterior access rooms and that they have actually taken the time and invested into bringing this stunning building up to par . hats off to your staff . UNknown
flew out of indy for a weeks stay in florida . spent the night before at the hyatt place which allowed us to leave our car on site while we were gone . the hotel was a pleasant stay , complete with continental breakfast , an onsite restaurant ( which we used and enjoyed ) , a starbucks coffee shop , free wi - fi , a flatscreen hd tv ( which originally did not work properly , but the manager responded within minutes & had it fixed within no time ) , and a free shuttle to and from the airport . the hotel is only a couple of minutes from the airport , and the shuttle service was prompt . no signing up for a time UNknown by the hotel . they go when you need it . not the other way around . and the staff were very friendly and seemed eager to ensure that their guests would be comfortable and pleased with their stay . we will definitely come back the next time we are flying out of indy . i am eager to try other hyatt place hotels in other cities as well .
we stayed in february of this year with our daughter who was celebrating her 18th and a young son of 7 . from the moment you stepped into the lobby warm smiles and the best customer service greeted you ! the rooms were not huge but adequate but the breakfast in the morning more than made up for this . it is an amazing place to stay and good value too , right in the heart of times square but out of the hustle of ny life ! my son stayed in british UNknown whilst we were out there , we were up every morning at 4am . however , the lounge was always open with free coffee and muffins a life saver at times , so thank you ! i have traveled extensively around the world and i have stayed in some amazing places but this has to be one of the best . yes the rooms could do with being a bit bigger but who comes to ny to sleep , not me or my son as it happens ! thank you previous posters for directing us to casablanca and new guests you wont be disappointed .
good midtown location , close to subway stop . but the service was too spotty to make our stay fully enjoyable : - on the first day one of our towels was dirty - we had to explicitly request service to make sure our room got cleaned ( we did not get service the first day ) - when we got back one day , we found the maid had turned off a / c ( on a 40 degree fahrenheit day ) - receiving a package in the mail involved making numerous phone calls to the front desk and waiting in line for a UNknown one hour - the free wifi connection was very poor , even when we upgraded to the fast $ 13 / day wifi , it was not much better - in order to dry your hair you have to keep pressing on a button on the wall - our room had a connecting door , and we were often disturbed by the loud conversations next door . to his credit the hotel manager refunded the cost of the wifi connection . that does not make up for the low average service quality .
we reserved 7 rooms for family and friends who joined us for a celebration . the suites are huge ! beds are separate from a little living room , UNknown and work area . every room was clean and in perfect order . breakfast includes a good and wide variety of options . it is buffet and not continental breakfast ! another great value to this hotel is the shuttle service , which runs to and from the airport , and to / from UNknown mall . location is also perfect for other areas in the city since it's located near main avenues and freeways . ( however , it is not noisy . different from other hotels in the area , the building is way back from the freeway , giving it some privacy ! ) i also checked many of the other hotels and their prices were very high . our visitors were already paying plane tickets and some rental cars . staybridge suites offered the best of all at an affordable price ! all of our guests ( 7 rooms ! ) thanked my husband and i for the wonderful hotel we chose for them .
we chose this hotel to be our " home base " when we came to washington , d . c . to watch my husband run in the marine corps marathon . i cannot say enough about how accommodating the staff of this hotel was to our every need . by the second day , everyone at the front desk knew us . the housekeeping staff said hello from UNknown down the hall if they saw us ( or any other guests ) leaving our room ( s ) . the holiday inn UNknown has brought a new look to this hotel and it was fun for the kids to look for the green UNknown on the walks home in the evenings . it was an easy walk to several metro stations and not completely out of the way for you just to walk to the white house , the national mall , the smithsonian museums , or the capitol building . the 24 - hour coffee in the lobby was awesome ( better than some large coffee chain's brews ) . overall , we had a wonderful trip and would definitely return to / recommend this hotel .
stayed one night with gf . i'm from san diego , so i know the area pretty well and the location of this hotel is great if you want to walk to petco park or just around gaslamp district . it is a little bit of a walk from the main part of gaslamp , but i think that is a plus since you don't have to deal with the hustle bustle . anyways , the hotel is a small boutique hotel with free wifi in the rooms and the lobby has free computers and printers for guests to use . the rooms were clean and cozy . the decor was simple yet nice . there's also a bar at the lobby with happy hour . the only complaint that i had was the room we got was a little noisy probably due to the fact that it was really close to the elevators ? also , the valet parking is $ 35 ! i've stayed at other hotels in sd like hotel UNknown and omni and they charge $ 25 ( i believe ) . overall , it was a good experience and i would probably stay again
i stayed at w washington with a group of friends , traveling to see a hockey game . first off , the service at w is above great . dag at the service desk has gone to great lengths to help accommodate us . the bar on the roof top is one of best , UNknown bars / clubs in town . and hotel guests jump the long line . make sure to give it a try . the hotel itself is very nice , rooms are small but well furnished , with clean amenities . the hotel gym is small , but has what is needed . of course , the location couldn't be better for most people on business or tourist such as us . only one negative for us : one simple request could not be answered . we could not access pay - per - view to watch a sporting event . this should normally be easily accomplished by a hotel that prides itself on " anything , anytime , anywhere " . at least , the very nice staff gave it their best shot to try and help us , which we appreciated .
we've stayed at the marriott marquis for our annual xmas trips back to ny to visit family for the past three years . this was the best as we were upgraded to a times square view on the 41st floor even though i've UNknown to silver status at marriott . we checked in on dec 22 and were originally scheduled for 4 nights and paid a great rate months ago with the prepay option which is why i rated it as excellent for value . normal great service as we checked out a day early due to the coming snow storm and even though prepaid , the elite team on the 8th floor ( UNknown ) did a great job of ensuring we got credited to our credit card for one night . room service was fantastic as usual . we dont eat there as we have so many favorites close by due to the fantastic location . great having starbucks on the 8th floor ! will stay here each and every time and the location is our favorite . only slight draw back can be the unique elevator system and during busy times you need some patience .
i stayed here because of the proximity to union square and the price . it was lower than any other hotel in the area and it looked to be where i wanted to be . i read some pretty UNknown reviews so i was hoping it wasn't that bad because there were some good ones too . i was rather pleased . my room had an ok view of the neighborhood , the room was small but no different then rooms i had stayed in in europe for twice the price . it was victorian decor but nicely done and sure the hotel was old but they tried to do some upgrading ( at least the room i had ) . it was nice and quiet at night and i was there for 4 nights . the staff ( like in other reviews i read ) were very helpful and went out of their way to assist when i needed it . if you have a car , parking is hefty and you have to wait up to 30 minutes to get it , so call ahead . can't speak to the continental breakfast , never made it .
i would not recommend this hotel to anyone . the rooms are spacious and the beds comfortable , and the location is reasonably good , but everything else is unsatisfactory . the glasses in the room were dirty . there were chips and stains and other signs of UNknown throughout . i was given a room with no chair and no table ; when i asked to be switched ( the hotel was virtually empty ) , i was told there was no other room . i pointed out that for the rate i was paying ( $ 179 ) i could have booked a " junior suite " on the hotel website , but the surly girl at the reception desk insisted nothing was available , even though the hotel website showed lots of empty rooms . i eventually moved down the street to the hotel palomar , just off dupont circle , which i highly recommend . the staff there is great and the rooms much , much more comfortable than at the churchill . the neighborhood is also more fun , with lots of restaurants , a little grocery store , coffee shops , etc .
while the location of this hotel was convenient for college visits , it was not worth the mouse we saw UNknown under someone's door upon returning to the hotel about 11 pm one evening . ( subsequently , we noted a section on " UNknown " in the hotel's literature - to notify them if we saw a problem . had we known that they had a rodent problem in advance , we would never have booked here . ) prior to our arrival , the hotel " bumped " us from their main property to their " harbour " location , due to overbooking . we had booked our reservation about a month in advance , and they called to notify us of the change about a week before our arrival . as it was too late to secure another reservation in the area , we agreed , but were disappointed that our room was in the basement of the second location . parking was difficult if you planned to use your car while there - many parking " gymnastics " , especially when we were bumped to the second location . very disappointed in this experience .
we stayed here for one night . check - in was quick and easy . we arrived early and the bellman stowed our UNknown for us . our room was on the smaller side but was ok for us . just enough room for a queen bed , chair and desk / dresser . the bathroom was very nice and clean . we did have drinks in the lobby . pricey for a glass of house wine ( $ 11 ) . the biggest con was that we had one of the rooms that faced the club across the street that other have mentioned . it was very loud ( like someone was throwing a party in the room next door ) . it is not the hotel's fault but if you are a light sleeper and / or go to sleep early this may not be the hotel for you . the biggest pro is the location . we were able to cross the street , get coffee at a starbucks , then walk 5 minutes and we were at the white house . we walked to and from dinner the night before and felt very safe .
if you want to be really midtown manhattan , this hotel is perfect . just 8 min from times sq . , 3 min from fifth and bryant , very close to some main subway stations . the hotel itself is quite good for manhattan generally low standards . it's not the newest hotel in town , it shows its age , but it is well tended . we booked on their website a standard double queen room and got a very good deal because we booked a 4 nights offer . at check - in we asked for a higher floor room and we were given a UNknown one facing the main street ( 42nd ) . the room was ok , it seemed clean and comfy but even if smoking is UNknown , it smelled terribly of cigarettes and so we complained about that . they were really sorry and upset about it and immediately upgraded us to a little suite . nice customer care . internet is not free in the rooms but in the lobby they have a free pc workstation dedicated to flights check - in and boarding pass printing . i'd recommend .
after a late start checking in ( not impressed that our room was not ready post check in time after flying for 20 hours from australia and already being 3 . 30pm to be told to wait in the bar area when all i wanted to do was dump my bags and have a shower . the staff did not seem to concerned that this annoyed us - but this was the only issue we had ) we were given our key to the 17th floor . we had a small view of times square which i did not expect as we got a great deal for the hotel . the location here is fantastic . it is close to everything and has a fantastic breakfast that is good value for money . the staff ( other than the person who checked us in ) were helpful and attentive , but it is a large place with lots of traffic and you will be treated well , but it will be more UNknown than you may get in a more boutique hotel and it will be the location that will have people come back , not the service .
we were supposed to stay there fro four nights , unfortunately hurricane irene cut short our visit and we were gone in two days . overall , i found this hilton property to be good but not great . from the marginally acceptable bell boy service - took UNknown to get our bags up - to constant waiting lines for customers to check - in , it was always a case of missed opportunities to be great . it was disappointing to see a customer point out the overflow of water into the hallway at the executive lounge . the lounge was exceptionally well staffed on saturday morning but friday am and pm , was marginal . the rooms are standard hotel rooms , which is a compliment in down town nyc ! the rooms were made up quickly and the amenities were above average . the worst part was the elevators . the wait was unacceptable . time for an overhaul of the elevators hilton ! we had a group lunch at the cafe where the service was good and the desserts - huge chocolate and carrot cakes ! - were great ! overall a pleasant experience .
we recently took a trip to new york city and stayed at the grand hyatt . the location was fantastic - literally next door to grand central station , any location in the city was a quick subway ride or walk away . we managed to find a great deal on the room through expedia - paid less than $ 200 per night , normally the room would have been nearly $ 400 . the reception / concierge services were very good and the location couldn't have been better . avoid the hotel restaurant and do not buy the $ 50 per day convenience charge for breakfast . the food at the hotel was the biggest rip off . $ 9 cup of coffee for room service , $ 28 omelet . the restaurant wasn't much cheaper . the good thing is that there are many many restaurants and of course star bucks located within easy walking distance of the hotel . the room was clean , bigger than expected and comfortable . i wouldn't have wanted to pay $ 400 per night , but for our deal of less than $ 200 it was totally worth it .
we were recommended by a friend who used to live in dc to stay at the willard , so we didn't really investigate anything else . upon arrival the staff were very friendly and our kids very impressed by the huge , traditional lobby - gave a real sense of arrival . they gave us a fabulous 2 bedroom , 3 bathroom , 1 sitting room suite , which was great for us as a family , as on a 5 weeks trip you do tend to get a bit on top of each other ! the rooms were very traditional and color scheme very dark and heavy , so it felt a little like being at grandma's house ; however we were very comfortable and enjoyed our stay . there was a w hotel next door , which looked amazing , so if i were to go back to dc i would prob investigate staying there - bit more groovy - but as i said , no complaints . also the position of the willard was great for site seeing and the kids liked it . all staff were very friendly and helpful and the beds comfortable !
the sink was at the foot of the bed ! no place to hang your towel or washcloth by the sink . no air conditioning so we had the window open . street noise and talking from other rooms all night . room was so small we had to put our suitcases in front of the door - fire hazard . light from the hall came in on all 4 sides of the door . antiques are 99% UNknown . valet parking was cheap , but your car is 15 minutes away from the hotel , so you have to wait . bathroom had been redone at some point so it wasn't gross . area was not nice - no nice restaurants or shopping . lots of student housing in the area with the bars , etc that goes with that . no chair - no room for a chair . no closet . you had to hang your clothes on a few hooks . bed was very springy like it had old timey springs . i was afraid to look . every time my husband turned over , i got bounced . this place was the worst !
first visit to new york city . my daughter and i spent a whirlwind weekend ( friday until monday ) in new york . we absolutely loved it ! we stayed at the best western seaport inn for 3 nights , and chose this hotel based on other reviews . we were not disappointed . clean , quiet large room on the 5th floor . great view of brooklyn bridge from our window . douglas was our check in clerk , and he was very friendly , patient and extremely helpful with all of our many questions . very close walking distance to many areas of downtown manhattan . great little seaport across the street . nice shops and restaurants very close by . we also booked a 48 hour hop on hop off bus tour . we had to take the subway to start our tour uptown . fulton street subway less than 10 minute walk from hotel . we could then take advantage of the hop on hop off stop nearby for the remainder of that tour , but took the subway back later on from times square . would definitely stay at this hotel again .
the wife and two teenage girls just loved it . the " deluxe 2 double " room was spacious , well - appointed , and comfortable . the bathroom had new fixtures . there is a safe in the room . the bed had feather pillows , but you can request foam . the girls requested the foam pillows , some extra towels , and extra glasses , and the housekeeping staff couldn't have been more friendly and helpful . they all felt very safe there , and the general staff were also very friendly and helpful - when they had trouble printing out their boarding passes on the lobby computer , the staff took them over to the front desk and did it from there . the doormen were awesome and super helpful in getting cabs . the hotel is perfectly situated near moma , etc . there is a starbucks attached to the hotel restaurant . if you are on a tight schedule , as they were , and want to hit the streets without a big delay for breakfast , there is a good fast ny diner about a block away - the astro restaurant .
stayed 3 nights over memorial day holiday . great location , took airport shuttle bus to port authority terminal ( 42nd / 8th ) short walk to the hotel , also close to most subway lines . rooms are adequate size . bathrooms great with large counter , shower and toilet rooms , includes refrig . small open closet had enought room for hanging , floor space used for shoes , purchases , etc . platform bed has walls on 3 sides , this makes it extremely difficult for climbing in and out . bed sits approx 36 " from the floor , padded railing aids in access . complimentary cont . breakfast was good , cold cereal , pastries , whole fruit , coffee , tea , juice , served on 2nd floor just above pool . housekeeping did not replace glasses or toiletries each day . no accessible ice machine , had to have it delivered . front desk staff , while very pleasant , had little knowledge . thank goodness for " google " on their computer . everything was clean and bright . consider it a good value , but not right for everyone .
despite having a UNknown centre and sex shop next door we never felt threatened or scared in this location . the hotel was situated about three blocks from time square and is next door to the massive bus terminal and new york times building with a subway at end of the street . the rooms were very clean and sufficient for a short break , although the air conditioning can get noisy after a while . the top floor bar is still not open despite being told it would be finished by the end of may , although there is a lounge bar , and whilst not full of atmosphere , it serves beer which is needed after a long day sightseeing ! staff were extremely helpful especially to us ny UNknown ! we never ate at the hotel so cannot comment on the food but they were fine with us eating our food in the bar one evening . the overall experience was absolutely fine , room was quiet of a night and whilst we booked this as a package i'm sure it would represent far better value than the hotels in the heart of time square ?
the lobby and the history of the hotel might give the impression of a luxury hotel , but the rooms are pretty average . unlike other old hotels where i've stayed , the rooms in this hotel seemed a bit worn down . we booked a room with two double beds and two bathrooms on a nonsmoking floor and were told at check in that the nonsmoking room could not be accommodated . our room did not smell of smoke but there was an ashtray in it . the beds were comfortable and had modern duvets . the furnishings kept in fashion with the old hotel look and were okay . the room was very spacious . my main concern was that the carpet looked worn and dirty and the bathrooms were not very modern . the bathroom mirror looked as though someone had wiped it down while it away still wet and left it . for the price , there are better , more modern hotels nearby . that said , if you are going to be at grant park a lot or need to stay close to the el , this might be a good fit .
i used trip advisor to find this wonderful hotel . we have traveled to nyc many times and all our previous hotel choices keep raising their prices . we like to save our $ for great broadway tickets and shopping in soho . the staff was so nice and friendly . i had a package delivered from a shopping trip and it was waiting in the room when we returned that evening . the front desk even even found a staff member to tie my son's bow tie before an evening at carnegie hall . they got cabs for us and found a table for our family at breakfast . we felt safe and every part of the hotel was very clean . we loved our room and the little kitchen came in handy for john's pizza leftovers . who can beat free breakfast and happy hour in nyc ? we had a big group travel to nyc and we definitely had the best hotel at the lowest price point . my son loved walking up to shake shack on 8th avenue and seeing spider man on broadway . thank you trip advisor for another great hotel recommendation !
at the end of our vacation , we had planned to spend the night at the airport , however , the idea was just not appealing anymore once we were there . so , we looked for a good value hotel that would be at the right price , right location and a good name . so , we found the sleep inn and it was just perfect ! the room was just perfect for 2 adults and had a huge shower . the front desk agent gave us an awesome price as we had to check - out at 3am to catch our morning flight and we arrived at 9 : 30pm . i guess our story touched him ! actually , it helped to be caa ( aaa ) member . they have wonderful prices . also , they have a 24 - hour shuttle if you don't have a car . i was pleasantly surprised and i would definitely stay in a sleep inn again when at the airport . ( i usually book 4 to 5 star hotels , so trust me , if i liked this hotel , go for it ! ) .
i stayed at the waldorf=astoria for two nights this august . the front of the building is being renovated so people must use the side entrance . not a problem . an extremely warm and hospitable lady at the front desk named UNknown assisted me with the check - in . i found that the two concierges on duty were extremely rude as one proceeded to wait on a customer that had just walked up as i was in the middle of asking a question . turning to the other concierge , she proceeded to answer the phone and have a conversation while i was left standing there . do i need an appointment to see the concierge or what ? ! ? rooms were a bit tired - looking . i had a suite and my bed was extremely comfortable . the toilet " ran " all night and i had to shut the bathroom door to keep my room quiet . check - out was extremely efficient . i am just wondering . at most hilton hotels i get a free breakfast being a hilton honors member . that courtesy does not occur at the waldorf .
we stayed here for a family wedding in town last weekend and paid $ 99 / night plus tax . when we arrived in our non - smoking room there was a strong smell of smoke . the linens were ripped , all of the bathroom fixtures were rusted , shower curtain covered in mildew , and the decor looked like it had not been updated since the early UNknown . we were excited that these rooms were suites and had a pull out sofa . however linens are not provided for the pull out and when we asked the desk we were given two sheets but no blanket or flat sheet . the hotel did change us to another room the second night , however minus the smoke smell , it was exactly like the first . breakfast was mediocre at best with barely edible food , cereal and fruit were among the only thing worth having . hey at least it was free ! learn from me , save your money and search for a better hotel . we did finally find the cause of the smoke smell . cigarette butts in the a / c .
my husband and i stayed at the hotel march 18 - 21 , 2005 and loved the location . the hotel was clean and tastefully decorated . we had a thrid floor balcony room , so brought our breakfast up to our room to eat out on the balcony each morning . we were a bit disappointed that we didn't get the use of robes ( as advertised ) , even after inquiring a second time at the desk . apparently , they don't have enough for all the rooms . however , when we mentioned our disappointment again at checkout , the clerk gave us a $ 10 credit for each day . more robes are on order . when checking in , the clerk was very quick to accommodate our request to have a room near the friends were were meeting . regarding parking , the hotel has parking at $ 10 per day . it is very convenient , and includes in and out privileges . a nearby pay lot is cheaper , but doesn't have in and out privileges and you must find the attendant each morning to pay in advance for the day .
well when we got to the room it was cold , had an odor to it and the trash was so full you could not get anymore in it . there was a stain on the sheet in the pull out couch . when we got up the next morning there was only bagels , apples , and bananas for breakfast and just coffee , orange juice , and watered down apple juice to drink . it was ok for a one night deal . but i would find somewhere else if i plan on going back to indy . we will never go thru hotel . com again either because when we called and told them what we were looking for they gave us a room that had 1 bed in it . and i have 6 people in my family . we asked for a hotel with an inside pool and the first hotel they booked us for was a hotel that had a pool but it was outside . hello it is 40 degrees outside we are not polar bears . was not satisfied with hotel . com and will never go thru them again .
we stayed here for just 1 night before flying out of phoenix . the first impression wasn't great because there was only one man working the desk juggling the phones , the front desk calls , and check ins . the wait was a little annoying but the gentleman working the front desk was still very friendly while checking us in even though he was having to run around like crazy . the room itself was much better than we expected from a days inn . it was very spacious ( we had a king room ) and clean . the bedding was much nicer than other days inns i've stayed at . the towels were definitely pretty pathetic in both size and thickness . the only major downside was that the ceiling / floor to the second level must have been about an inch thick . we could easily hear every footstep the people above us took , so that's something to consider if you're a light sleeper . i was wishing i had asked for a second story room . overall , for the price , it was a great value and i'd stay there again .
we stayed here at the beginning of september and found this hotel more than met our expectations . we loved the luxurious rooms , the molton brown toiletries and most of all the huge wide screen tvs with surround sound in the rooms . the rooms were spacious with bath and shower in the king rooms and large walk in shower only in the twin doubles ( our party had one of each type ) . the staff couldn't have been more helpful ; the concierge in particular did everything they could to make our stay a memorable one . the restaurants they recommended for us were spot on and gave us some fabulous eating experiences . the conrad is also conveniently situated within a large mall so you can go shopping without even going outside . you walk out through the mall and you are right on michigan avenue , the magnificent mile . the rooms were quiet with no street noise despite this and offered quite good views . it is in a fabulous location and is a wonderful hotel with excellent staff and facilities . i would definitely recommend it and would stay there again .
i was staying at this hotel for a conference . it has extensive space for large gatherings and hotel staff are efficient , experienced and friendly . hotel restaurant food was better than expected : my steak was very edible . but this is not a hotel i would choose for a holiday , in spite of its good location and only 7 minutes walk to the metro . the reasons are as follows . the hotel is not pretty . while it is maintained and everything works , the corridors feel ugly and the room doors are of ugly green metal . i had a tour of the pentagon and its corridors and doors were more attractive the this hotel's . the hotel has an ok gym , but hotel guests are charged 10 dollars per session . i have never stayed at a hotel which charged guests for using its gym . perhaps surprisingly for a conference hotel , the bar seemed quite dead . luxury , charm , a good place to relax , drink champagne , be among nicely - dressed people ( ! ) - for all these things you should go elsewhere .
my family and i stayed here in april . we needed two rooms that where adjoining since we had our two children with us . the front desk went above and beyond to make sure our rooms where connecting and got us directions to the indianapolis zoo and children's museum . they also made UNknown on resturants in the area . the hotel was very clean and updated . our rooms where very comfy and spotless . the breakfast was pretty good as well and the breakfast person was very upbeat ! also when we checked in to the hotel the lady at the front desk noticed that we had children and offered them some candy that they had in a UNknown at the desk . i was very thrilled by this since most hotels act like you don't have children present and don't realize that they have been sitting in a car for at least a couple of hours . i will come back to this hotel time and time again when we visit indianapolis . i must also say that indianapolis is a very beautiful city and you should put it on your to do list !
we arrived late at night , but the area felt quite safe and was reasonably well - lit ( there were corners of the parking lot that were dark , but there was very ample parking in the brighter areas ) . front desk staff were all friendly and helpful , check - in was extremely quick . the room was very nice , linens were of good quality , pillow selection very good ( many pillows , varying firmness ) , and the room was relatively spacious . the bathroom was also spacious , and the shower was really nice - good water pressure , and an adjustable spray , something missing in many of the places were visited over the past weeks . breakfast was quite good , and there was ample seating in the lobby / common area . the staff working the breakfast was helpful and responsive to any issues ( things running out , spills , etc . ) . and my kids thoroughly approved of the pool ! a generously sized swimming area , much better than some other places we've stayed . overally , a very good , very relaxing stay .
this was the smallest room that i've ever stayed in . i wanted inexpensive , clean , and close to the airport , and it delivered all three . the desk clerk was friendly and helpful when i tried to get a new phone cord , as my phone was inoperable upon arrival . the bed was very firm , the pillows were marginal , and the walls were very thin with television noise from the other rooms making it hard to go to sleep . the room is so small the the air conditioner is about a foot from the bed , great for cooling , and the tiny room cools off quickly , but the a / c is very noisy in such a small room the shuttle was waiting for us , or it would have been quicker to walk than to take th shuttle , the hotel is that close ! it was great to roll out of bed , and be at the ticket counter in about two minutes . i might stay at the hotel again , but i'll definitely see what a few more dollars would get me in sleep quality .
my girlfriends and i stayed at your hotel while attending the us open tennis . the hotel staff are by far the best as my friend had gone out for a run when she returned she was greeted with a bottled water . the food and drink at the bar by the pool is really good i highly recommend the beef sliders ! my only complaint is the lighting in the room and size of our bathroom . we only had one sink and the mirror over the sink only has one light which makes it very hard to put your make up on ! there is a small make up mirror but the light is green ? i would stay at trump soho again just request a spacious room with better bath room lighting . i honestly don't know why luxury hotels can't have a built in vanity for you to put on make up and one other thing is a place to shave your legs in the shower we did have a tub but to busy to take a tub bath on vacation . being really close to the spring st . subway is great too !
upon arrival we were greeted by friendly staff from the moment we opened our car door . there was a greeter welcoming guests right through the front door . the check - in process was pleasant as well . when i booked the room on their site , i noted that it was our anniversary and would prefer a higher floor . to my surprise , someone really read that ! the front attendant wished us a happy anniversary and proceeded to tell us we would be on the top floor with a balcony , an upgrade compliments of our hotel . very nice gesture . the entire weekend was great . several well known restaurants all within walking distance . st UNknown steakhouse , a let down to say the least ! i had to send my steak back twice and the waiter was annoyed that i would bother him for this . veggies were totally undercooked as well , maybe that's s was they should be known for undercooked food ? and you're gonna like it ! that was the attitude , skip this place for sure and go next door , cool vibe good food .
room very big , with perfectly serviceable bathroom . view from the window was of a parking lot ( we were on the third floor ) , so not very inspiring . not 100% sure i would go with a polyester ( or similar ) throw on the bed , but fine for the rest . amenities free internet ! also , according to a little sign in the bathroom they'll provide a whole host of things complimentary if needed . very good ! restaurant / bar fine , even if a little dark . food was good . location convenient pool mostly in the shade and small , but perfectly serviceable , provided it is not overrun by kids ( what happened while we were there ) other things free wine hour : totally packed ! not something i was looking for , so would be happy to do without . pet policy : do not stay here if you're allergic to dogs . i love them , so it was fine for me , but consider yourself warned . staff : nice , but don't always give the impression that they know what they are doing .
the chancellor is in a fantastic location for sight seeing and convenience . nice staff . it is not nearly as pretty as other small union square hotels we've stayed at and loved : the kensington park and the warwick regis . the chancellor is definitely no frills . bathroom has vinyl and linoleum , old looking grout , and plastic tub . no marble or UNknown here . the room is perfectly clean but quite unimaginative . no lovely little touches - chairs are old and bedding is plain . the tv sits on the dresser , is not housed in an armoire or anything . i think it looked like a very clean and cheaply decorated motel 6 . however it is about $ 40 a night cheaper than anywhere else we've stayed and we loved spending that money on play tix instead , etc . if you were staying several nights the savings would be considerable . it is probably not the place to hole up in for a romantic snuggly weekend . but if you are interested in seeing the whole town this is a perfect and inexpensive place to lay down your head .
this hotel offers everything a w would offer - but probably wont find a hotel with such an electric atmosphere and vibe . probably one of the best locations in all of nyc - the living room lobby is happening w / locals , celebrities , and chic tourists - the place is see and be seen . the staff is all good looking , young , and nice . one major drawback - no cell service with at & t's iphone at all . had to connect with friends in city - it cost me $ 85 to leave 5 voicemails thru w phone . i definitely complained - there excuse is everyone in nyc has the iphone therefor clogging the airways . the front desk lady was nice and reduced bill by $ 50 . as a platinum member i thought more should have been taken off . the hotel lobby drinks = great ! blue fin was UNknown - food was just ok - i had a better tuna burger in dc . rooms great . overall - definitely recommend UNknown hotel for location and vibe but if you have an iphone - good luck !
we just came back from a 4 night stay at the park south hotel in murray hill : we'd recommend it in a heart beat . for $ UNknown a night ( which is a great price for nyc ) we had a big room , two double beds . the beds were excellent , as were the linens and bath products . the breakfast that was included was by far and away the best we have ever encountered for a continental breakfast : it included hard boiled eggs , a selection of meats and cheeses , yummy pastries , fresh fruit and more , as well as two dedicated staff who kept refilling throughout the morning . front desk staff was friendly and helpful . the only downsides were a lack of closet space and the location is a bit off the beaten path : we did discover , though , that you could walk a couple of blocks west and jump on a direct train to times square and the theatre district . oh ! and the hotel air conditioning worked amazingly well , which was important since it was the first heatwave of the season .
why even bother ? we had made reservations for a king room with a city view and had a confirmation number . when we arrived we were informed that they didn't have any king rooms . we told them that a king is what we reserved . we were then told " that's what it shows here " . we were then told " let me see what we have " . we ended up with a double room with a limited view . they did offer to charge us the regular double room rate . when we got to our room , the sliding glass door to the balcony wouldn't open because the glass had recently been broken and it hadn't been fixed yet . they offered to move us which we did . the rooms aren't any better than any other hotel . yes the beds were nice but that's about it . i've had dealings with lots of hotels , in all different price ranges and have never had this kind of problems before . even motel 6 will keep better reservations than this " resort " . don't waste your time or your money .
i booked one of the executive king one bedroom suites with a conference table but found out upon arrive that all the executive king rooms face the highway . i found the room very large and new but noisy due to the busy highway . the staff couldn't of been more helpful moving me to a room facing the back of the hotel . talk about great customer service . although the new room only had two queen beds the room was great . since the hotel is new so are all the furnishings . there are 2 flat screen tvs in the suites . the kitchen is modern with all the furnishings to cook . on the first floor there is a great workout room with laundry facilities attached . the washers / dryers are free . when was the last time you stayed at a hotel where there was no charge to do laundry ? there is a business center on the first floor with a photocopy machine and a printer , of course at no charge . the breakfast is also wonderful . parking is included and has easy access on and off the highway .
on our fourth visit to san antonio from the uk and have stayed at various hotels close to the airport but this one is head and shoulders above its competitors . we spent four nights here towards the end of july . the hotel is was just perfect . we had a single bedroom suite with a fully equipped kitchen , two queen beds and roomy lounge area that was clean and very comfortable . the staff were excellent and always smiling . breakfast was good although the only minor issue was tha fact that the breakfast area did get quite crowded and on a couple of mornings we had to wait in order to have a table . the pool area had plenty of sun loungers and chairs and the pool itself was immaculate . the location was ideal as well only minutes from the north star mall ( for which the female members of the family were very happy about ) and close to a multitude of good eating outlets . all in all great value for money and if we come back to san antonio in the future will be sure to stay here again .
first the good : 2 blocks from the capital and the mall , 4 blocks for the union station . the room was very nice and had just been remodeled . service was ok to . now the bad : where should i start ? i have stayed in a lot of hotel and never had to pay to use the swimming pool , yes that's right $ 12 per day . a local phone call was $ 1 . there are no restaurants near by so , eat before you get there ( take - out at union UNknown ) . breakfast at the hotel is over priced big time , $ 14 for pancakes , a 16 oz bottle water in the room was $ 3 . 50 and donuts were a $ 1 each . here is the catch . i reserved my room online and got a pretty good rate ( $ 99 ) but they did not say anything about parking . my wife when in to check in and the valet person told me it was $ 30 per night . so , i am sure i will not stay there again .
upon entering the room , it smelled musky and old . i immediately turned on the air conditioner , which helped . the shower curtain was orange around the hem , not white and pristine , so i had to put the curtain on the outside of the UNknown tub . the exposed plumbing and the back , sides and underneath the tub were dirty and dusty . the canopy on the bed was very dusty and had cobwebs on it . i just had to forget about it for the night . yuck . dust overhead while i slept . it would be better not to have a canopy than to have a dirty canopy . the staff was polite , professional and friendly . the lobby was charming . valet service was the best $ 20 i spent on this trip ! i called valet for my car and it was there within 5 - 10 minutes . i will say that the marble ( ? ) entryway stairs are a bit steep , so , certain guests may have a hard time entering . perhaps they have a ramp entrance to accomodate all their guests ?
although i was not lucky enough to find any deals ( i never am ; i paid full price ) , our stay at the swissotel could not have gone much better . we bought the shedd aquarium package and upgraded to a corner room with a view of the river on one side and navy pier on the other . awesome view ! my wifes trips to the spa and all other plans we made went without a hitch . the room was large and spotless . the shedd package could have been a little simpler ( charge you at the restaurant for breakfast and is credited back at the front desk ) but they gave us what was promised . a couple of things to watch out for are we settled for a room on the & 7th floor and even at midnight the street noise was unbearable ( including the hotel taxi whistles every 5 minutes ) and make sure you skip the valet parking . there are two parking decks one directly behind the hotel and one within a block where you can park at half the price ( if you count tips ) .
i enjoyed my stay here . the bed was very comfortable , and the room had all the amenities , including a fluffy white bathrobe . i even had a treadmill in my room ( though i'm told it would normally be an extra cost of $ 30 had i not gotten the luck of the draw on my business reservation ) ! convenient location , and staff always went out of their way to ensure my comfort . one thing i didn't like was the $ 9 . 95 / day internet charge - why is it that i can get complementary wireless at an econolodge but not at an upscale hotel ( marriott , this means you too ! ) ? also , the hotel had no airport shuttle service , so if you're coming by taxi it's between $ 30 and $ 40 . if you miss the $ 7 / each way indy go green bus ( like i did ) , it's either taxi or a limo service ( which you should reserve in advance - $ 17 ) . overall , though , i enjoyed the experience and would stay here again .
great location ! easy to walk to rockefeller center , central park , 5th ave shopping , times square and much more . subway stop for the b / d line only 1 . 5 blocks away . this line will take you to china town , little italy , empire state building , macys , etc . beautiful hotel with great art deco feel . rooms were very big with great windows that actually open . the sitting room was nice . only wish we had a bathtub , but the 2 person shower was neat . concierge service was great . we had a small medical emergency and the concierge helped us find a great er on a saturday night . what could have been a nightmare turned into a small inconvienence thanks to the help from the concierge staff . breakfast was included in our room rate . it was very nice and the restaurant staff was very helpful , but if we had to pay for the breakfast i would walk to 1 of the many restaurants in the area . it is very expensive . i would definitely stay at the london again !
as frequent tripadvisor users and reviewers , we see twice as many excellent ratings compared to v . g . for the donatello . we say , then , the donatello is clearly overrated . perhaps this has to do with the fact that it is part of a condo - exchange program with shell hospitality and some reviews own shares at the donatello and are trying to encourage trades ? the hotel definitely gets high marks for location as it is very close to union square right in the heart of s . f . and , yes , the price is reasonable : you get what you pay for . if you are looking for a charming hotel with a certain je ne UNknown UNknown , the donatello is not it . while the staff is more than nice , the hotel is a little run down , tired and dated . it is clean . however the bed sheets were not crisp being a little gray and wrinkled . don't want to " dis " this hotel as it is more than adequate and a good value . however , excellent really is a stretch .
got an excellent deal off hotwire . the westin is an absolutely beautiful hotel ! the conceirge ( sal ) was extremely helpful in finding me transportation to and from the hotel - i recommend taking the ocean express shuttle to manhattan beach if you have a few hrs . to kill ( only $ 3 round trip ) - and the location of the hotel is really easy to find - and that's coming from someone who has never been to la before ! the room has everything you could imagine . the beds are a dream to sleep on and they offer lots of beauty supplies ( there is a cost , however ) if you are interested . the pool was beautiful and had plenty of chairs . even supplied towels for guests . they fitness center was well equipped with machines and tv's , too . all in all , the place is just fabulous . one negative might be the price to park - $ 18 - but i didn't find that be unreasonable , given the price of the room i got - under $ 100 ! i highly recommend this hotel !
we have just returned from a trip to ny and stayed at the park south hotel for seven nights . it was really convenient for getting around manhattan . there is a subway line within yards of the hotel which means you don't have to worry about cabs . the hotel staff were friendly and made us feel really welcome and provided us with advice about getting the best deals from excursions . we had a small problem with our toilet , in that it got blocked , but the staff immediately upgraded us to a larger room for the rest of our stay . the rooms were kept really clean and the air conditioning was pretty good . the breakfasts were also good . great selections of bagels , croissants , pastries , muffins , fruit , cereals , tea , coffee and fruit juices . plus , if you're a UNknown , they keep a huge bowl of little chocolates down at reception , which is a much appreciated energy - boost after you've been walking around the city . if we were to visit ny again , we would have no hesitations in returning here !
my husband and i stayed here for the columbus day weekend . they have an excellent military rate . we booked two nights , but only stayed one . upon our arrival the staff was very friendly . check in was smooth but when we arrived at our non - smoking room , it reaked of cigarette smoke . we were quickly given another room on the first floor with much apology . our second room met our expectations , only the staff had not replaced the soaps in the bathroom and one of the lights was not working . these problems were quickly remedied with a call to the front desk . all was well until later in the evening when we noticed we could hear everything in the hallway , even conversations between people . at 1am when guests began coming home from the bars we were awoken to the sounds of our neighbors talking and their shower running . early in the morning we were again woken because of noise from the hallway . i would not recommend a stay here if you plan to get any sleep . the walls are far to thin .
yes the room was small and i could hear everything going on in the hallway , but it was great . in ny you have to expect anything and everything . i actually live in the bronx and take time to have what i call " city weekends " . so i found this room for $ 99 and i was UNknown . it was cute and had a kitchenette and free wifi . i can see how an out of towner may be a little concerned by the area . but the street is busy with traffic and UNknown with people coming and going from the 3 hotels and the club on the corner . a short pleasant walk to times sq and all that it has to offer . plenty of cheap eats on 8th and 9th aves . of course if you are looking for service and decor of a ritz carlton or a westin then you have to pay that kind of money . if you want a clean cozy room with easy access to shopping , shows , restaurants , and the bright lights of broadway then this is the place for you .
we traveled from the uk and spent a week in the hotel , the staff were the most friendly and accomodating that we have ever come across in our travels around the world . this is the first time we have stayed at a kimpton hotel and we were very pleased with the room , granted the view of the building opposite was not ideal but everything was clean and we were surprised how big the room was for a city centre compared to paris or london . the location was ideal for union station and capitol hill with the smithsonian museums only a 10 - 15 minute walk away . the only negative i had was with regard to the free breakfast we were offered , for such a good quality hotel and a supposed top 6 rated restaurant attached it was very poor , more akin to a children's box from mcdonalds , a bagel an apple and a small drink , not the kind of breakfast we expected ( love to know what they did with all the boxes we never took ) if it hadn't been for the breakfast i'd have given it 5 stars
my group occupied three rooms for four nights over the new year's eve weekend . the location of the the hotel is wonderful . there is easy access to times square , the theater district , rockefeller center and shopping on 5th ave . the staff was quite pleasant and helpful . i was very disappointed in the size of the rooms and the bathrooms . they say on other websites that they offer rollaway beds , but even they will tell you if you call that there is not room for one in the room . even though they just finished an extensive renovation , things still seem , well , cramped and dated . our rooms were on three different floors and none had a view of anything but rooftop and ventilation units . the beds are quite comfortable and our rooms were quiet . i think this hotel is trying to live on the reputation of being a gathering place for long - dead famous writers many years ago . i'm all for historical significance , but it doesn't make for comfortable accomodations . i think for the money there are better values out there .
as many other reviewers have stated , the location of this hotel is key . it is right on times square ! when we checked in we were told we had a UNknown times square view room . the view was actually amazing . we were on the 28th floor and almost level with the new year's eve ball . the room was really just ordinary . it was nice but could have been nicer . it was clean but could have been cleaner . it really was a large room with two queen size beds , two chairs , an end table , a desk and a large flat screen tv . the bathroom was just ordinary . we had drinks , a salad and dessert in the bar on the 8th floor . we had a table right next to the floor to ceiling windows with an amazing view of times square . the food was good and the UNknown was fun . the elevator system was interesting and very efficient - we never waited for an elevator . overall i would not hesitate recommending this hotel - if you get a room with a view .
over the years we have stayed at the marina inn , there has been a steady decline in the condition of this property since our first visit . obviously there has been an ownership change ( maybe a few ) since the days when the 3 sisters group owned it . the furniture is well worn , carpet needs cleaning at least , plumbing is very temperamental , the sink was old and cracked , elevator is unusually noisy , continental breakfast is pathetic . the outside of the building is in disrepair as well , it needs a paint job for starters . you get all this for approximately $ 190 . 00 per night ( weekend rate ) . on a high note the location is very good , close to union street and cow hollow and just around the corner from chestnut street where there is trendy shopping and great eats . the bus line #30 stops just on the corner which gets you to the wharf , chinatown and downtown very easily . what a shame this place has gotten so bad . it could be and once was a great place to stay .
i had to make a reservation one morning for an out of town business stay that evening . i had just stayed at another hampton inn while on vacation , so decided to try that brand again . on arrival , the check in process went smoothly . the lobby was very nicely decorated and the breakfast area was big , clean and nicely decorated . the room was very nice and modernly decorated . it was comfortable and the bathroom was nice . the only downside was when i needed to use a computer and went to the business center and there was a family using all 3 computers . after dinner , i had no problem getting on the computer . the property is about a mile or so from easton town center and i didn't really feel like walking there for dinner as it is all busy roads . easton town center is really nice with lots of dining options . probably the only downside to the hampton inn chain is that they don't have a restaurant or bar , but the room was definitely nice and i am glad i went with that choice .
my wife and i stayed at this hotel for a wedding . when we checked in , we were told we had a double room , and asked if they would give us a king . the response was that it would " mess up his computer " if he changed our room . we then walked to our room to see that the door was open , not closed . we pushed the door open and walked in , luckily no one was in the room . after walking in the room , we soon discovered that the carpet was damp and squishy , not something you want to be walking on without shoes . we went to pull back the sheets to discover hair in the bed . decided that wasn't the bed to sleep on . luckily the other bed was fine . the bathroom was average , though we did find hairs in the sink . needless to say , if this is any indication of other baymont inns , we won't be staying at one anytime in the near future , and would sleep in our car before staying at this particular baymont .
always been quite a far of sheraton , i have stayed in this hotel chain through various cities around the world . the room is rather spacious for ny standards . the staff always greet you by your last name which is a great touch to the servicing quality . the aircon in the room may be a little distracting if you are light sleeper . it was my first time in ny and the staff was very helpful when i had a difficult to flag down a cab to pick up my other half from jfk as it was at the peak hour ( 4pm to 8pm ) . the staff guided me the route from subway to air train that will take me straight to the desired terminal with a cheap cost of $ 7 . 25 . very thankful for that . the wifi is excellent in the room . the location is excellent if you want a slightly less crowded place like times square . there are some restaurants nearby and the italian restaurant at the lobby was pretty good . there are chic hotels around but give this a go if you like .
on my first trip to s . f . i booked a room for seven days at the st . regis , i was totally disappointed especially at nearly $ 400 . 00 a night , the room was small and outdated and there was an odor , i met a local who told me about the hotel beresford , so i went there and checked it out and liked what i saw . the room looked about the same as that of the st . regis , in size and furnishings , and at a special rate that the front desk gave me of $ 59 . 00 a night , i checked out of the st . francis who then offered to move me to a suite . but as far as i was concerned at 400 . 00 dollars a night , i should have been there in the first place . off to the beresford i went and each year when i travel to s . f . i stay there , and i am also greeted with upon entering my room and fruit and wine basket with a card that reads welcome back !
we returned to the hyatt regency columbus for our annual midwest UNknown convention . the hyatt regency staff were exceptional to work with . from the moment we arrived , the valet parking attendants greeted us warmly and thanked us for being there . next the front desk person greeted us with a smile and she quickly checked us in . our room was fabulous with a view of the arena district . the room was updated and very comfortable . the bathroom was clean and neat . the big bar on 2 had decorated the area for our group ( haunted attraction owners and actors ) which made everyone feel welcomed . the breakfast sandwiches at perks , on the second floor were really good . we called and placed our order before leaving the room and it was ready when we arrived . everyone from the sales staff , to meeting services and general management were great to work with . we're looking forward to returning next year . there is a food court connected to the hotel and lots of really good restaurants within walking distance . this is our favorite downtown hotel in columbus .
hotel staff is friendly and helpful , and rooms are clean and coffee / tea / bath supplies replenished daily . room is not that big but there is sufficient room for two , and the only window in the room overlooked the back of the other buildings but we were ok with that . comes with breakfast which is at mama eatery 4 doors down from hotel , decent american breakfast ( think pancakes , eggs and ham , french toast ) with friendly staff . i must say that the hotel is great value for money . only problem was the location of the hotel , which was not exactly near the subway ( about 8 - 10 min walk ) and it was in chinatown , where the streets could be somewhat dirty , smelly and crowded . there is a great vietnamese restaurant called pho UNknown nearby at UNknown st , cheap and authentic food in a small crowded restaurant - if you are on a tight budget it would be wise to just do take - outs as you can save on tipping , which is about 15 - 20% of your bill .
spend four nights here during march . taxi from airport was a little uncertain of the hotel's location which was surprising considering how central it is . perhaps it does not have the same exposure as some of the bigger names in the area . best thing about this hotel is location and bedrooms . first impressions of the hotel were a little unsure as the entrance and reception areas are simple . however , the bedrooms are very spacious and comfortable as are the bathrooms . free wifi was also a pleasant surprise . breakfast included in the rate is simple enough but adequate . location is just off union square which is very central . only problem is the steep hills around this area ! street cable car stops on the corner and a taxi trip to most of the city is about $ 10 per trip which is a bargain . street cable car is expensive at $ 5 per journey per person if there are a few people so taxis are much better option . would recommend this hotel for location and bedrooms but it does lack the public areas of some neighbouring hotels .
i don't like to bad mouth a place , unless it is deserving ! this place is deserving . we got in late , around 9pm , the front desk man was polite , but looked though he just got out of the state penn . we had to find the room our selves ( no help from the front desk ) , when we did finally find the room through the maze network of 1960's buildings , the door was hard to open , the room was so stifling hot . i believe the microwave and tv are the ones originally purchased for the room in 1980 . so we though we would try the pool , big mistake , we made it down the concrete stairs without breaking our necks , to the pool yard and spa , to find poo , yes poo , floating in the spa ! the front desk man , acted as if it happens all the time . needless to say , i would not wish this place on my UNknown ! la quinta corp , do yourselves and phoenix a favor , drop a wrecking ball on this place !
for $ 420 a night , we expected better service . my wife and i travel frequently for work and pleasure , and were really disappointed with a number of very basic things that the hotel and its staff failed to address . 1 ) the safe in our room was locked upon arrival , and it took asking twice at the front desk to get somebody to unlock it . 2 ) the phone in our room did not work , thus necessitating multiple trips to the front desk to request service ( never happened ) . 3 ) nobody at the front desk had authority to do anything ! they claimed to take notes for the manager , but we never heard back about requests for late checkout or help moving between rooms ( we had 2 separate reservations ) . 4 ) the " free buffet breakfast " was the UNknown breakfast i've ever seen . i'm not usually one to complain about this , but it was embarrassing . the rooms were clean and comfortable , so no complaints there . with so many options in manhatten , we'll definitely look elsewhere next time .
the location of this hotel was great being right around the corner from st . UNknown hospital . but there were numerous problems with our room that were mostly being fixed by our third and check out day . fridge was noisy and had to be unplugged in order to sleep , drain wouldn't work and the UNknown lock on the door broke off the first night and the first attempt to lock the door . i had a mother with UNknown and she was terribly stressed over the fact that she didn't feel the door was locked until the last night . the carpet was dirty and smelled on our arrival and never was swept during our stay that we could see . i was disappointed in the room but the breakfast was great and the staff clerk on evenings was great trying to help us out with the problems that weren't getting done on days . the smell left after the second day even though we couldn't find the cause . i always expected more from a ramada but will say the staff did try to make our stay good , especially the evening desk clerk .
i stayed at this hotel for three nights . the staff was very nice , but the hotel was falling apart . the carpet was threadbare , the shower was not working very well , and the palce smelled . to make things worse , even the amenities were bad : the hottub was not working while i was there and the exercize room was falling apart . the treadmill has to be about 20 years old , and even the vinyl on the weight set was cracking . i asked them to move me to an upgraded " business room " after two nights , but that was exactly the same ! the only difference was free internet access . i told the staff how run down the room was and they obviously had heard it many times before - they just apologized . this place is close to another new sheraton that would be much better if you need to be in this part of phoenix . the only thing this hotel has going for it is the proximity to the UNknown mall , but the mall has seen better days too .  .  .
wow ! what can i say . we loved it ! we booked through priceline so had a UNknown price to begin with , then when we get there , they have offered to put us into their junior suite since we'll be there 5 nights . any of you who've used priceline know that you need to be prepared for sleeping next to the elevator or ice machine - we've never been treated like this . the junior suite was gorgeous . everything was impeccable , it was like having an apartment in the city . even the ac was so quiet , just like at home - not one of those in the wall units . the staff was always considerate and helped us with anything everyday . breakfast in the lovely restaurant each morning was terrific . we eat healthy , and they remembered us and always had the best oatmeal ready with fresh raisins to add and a side of egg whites freshly prepared . at night the bar was such a nice stop before slipping into the perfectly made bed - UNknown . thank you hamilton , you're in our hearts for good .
i enjoyed my stay at the holiday inn - central . i totally agree with the other reviews on this hotel , as the security made me feel very comfortable . included : key cards needed to open exercise room doors and activate elevators . there were also security guards present on property , which gives you an extra feeling of security . the rooms are clean and well - appointed . extra pillows in the dresser drawer was a nice touch . the tv includes full - cable , hbo , and showtime . there is a UNknown , well - equipped exercise room , and a rooftop pool . all very clean and well - kept . another plus : free washer & dryer access for hotel guests . a big plus when you need to get some laundry done . i did not get a chance to eat at the restaurant , but the menu offered quite a variety of choices and was very clean . this is a great hotel for families , and everyone on staff i encountered was very friendly and extremely helpful . i would definitely stay at this hotel again .
stayed here the last part of our gen con trip . i was a little concerned going in because it is about 4 blocks north of the convention center . i was worried about safety and about weather . i should not have been concerned . i was very comfortable with the walk between the convention center and the hotel . the walk was between the capitol and other government buildings and parking garages and there was absolutely nothing that felt unsafe about it . ( as for the weather , we had good weather . but if it were raining , it would be an unpleasant walk . ) the hotel itself was terrific . it had been recently renovated and was in great shape . one " problem " - the tv wouldn't turn on . it wasn't a problem for us as we tend to read a lot . we didn't even bother reporting it until we checked out actually . but they led me to believe that had i reported it earlier it would have been fixed . and i believe that it would have been . great stay . would gladly stay again .
a great location within walking distance of central park , times sq , grand central station etc . the area around the hotel is very busy due to being adjacent to the port authority bus depot . this adds to a sence of great security when walking the streets . the hotel is a 10 minute walk from times sq . the hotel itself is perfectly adequate for a short stay . our room was clean and bright with a large walk in shower , ironing board , coffee maker , tv and UNknown safe . we were on the 24th floor and had no problem catching the lifts of with street noise or noise from the UNknown bar on the roof . at the end of the street at the junction with 8th ave is a bar called " beer authority " . this doesn't look very inspiring from the outside but once inside i found it to have a very nice atmosphere . it is the UNknown of a british real ale pub . there must have been over 50 draught beers from small independent brewers . food was also available which was of very good quality
if you're looking for a centrally located hotel near nationwide , UNknown and the state capitol it's a good choice . it's not expensive ( you may be able to stay as cheap as $ 100 / night ) , and the staff is basically pretty friendly . it's certainly not the nicest courtyard by a long shot . the rooms are badly in need of an update , and the lobby is small and loud . there's no high speed internet in the rooms , and the phones are pretty beat up . there's a pool , but what business traveller goes and splashes around in the pool ? there's a gym ( read : treadmill and universal ) which isn't too bad . the rooms don't offer much of a view ( unless you like looking at parking lots ) , and parking is not free . but , the location is good and the price is right . i wouldn't choose it for my honeymoon , but i have no major complaints for a cheap business hotel in downtown columbus . if you're looking to stay somewhere fancier , try the westin or the lofts .
staff were great , bed was the best i have experienced in a hotel and i liked the location but they lie about the room size . stayed for 3 days as part of a month long trip - booked a cooper 3 which is claimed to be 300 sq ft . the room i was given ( and was UNknown that it was a cooper 3 ) would not have exceeded 250 sq ft . i complained and for another $ 50 a night was " upgraded " to a cooper 4 which is claimed to be 350 sq ft - liars . i purchased a tape , measured the room ( including bathroom ) and at best the room was around 280 sq ft . so for an additional $ 50 a night i still had a room that was smaller than that i had originally UNknown . how can a hotel in this day and age get away with such blatant lies on their website - these sizes are not even close - 20% variation ? if i had not booked through expedia some months earlier i would have UNknown payment on my credit card .
this was our second visit to the hyatt . while we enjoy an overnight in philly for the shopping and dining , the hotel was far from the highlight . we checked in at 4 : 30 to be told they were cleaning our room . we went out and got a call at 6 : 30 pm that our room was ready . waiting in the lobby , there were many other couples ( valentine's day ) in the same boat as us . the room was fine . the hotel you must remember is old and a big musty . only two elevators so there's often a long wait to get downstairs . the plus was the gym downstairs , a private club that the hotel has access to . the hotel's best feature . we went downstairs for the breakfast on sunday around 10 am and waited about an hour and a half to be served eggs . the buffet was not restocked which had guests waiting for fruits and vegetables to accompany their meals . i was glad to be staying only one night . i would probably find another location in center city .
i would recommend this hotel to anyone with a sense of adventure and sense of humor . this hotel is probably not for the stuffy business traveler used to a typical bedroom with awful bedspread and curtains . the rooms are small , but feel more spacious as the bed is on a raised platform and extremely comfortable . the flat screen tv works with the space constraints installed on the wall across from the bed . the bathroom is actually enormous with enough counter space for two . we had a room facing off the street and did not hear much street noise from the 11th floor . we arrived on a friday and witnessed the pool party chaos on our way back in from our night out . don't miss this party . we were too pooped to participate but it sure looked like fun . the breakfast was just enough to give you the fuel for the day . the kiosk is perfect for a late night snack or drink . who needs a minibar anyway ? i'd stay here again in a second . we got a $ 135 rate for a standard room .
rooms can be a bit small and a noisy ( tip : ask for a room away from the elevators ! ) , but overall , it was a good experience . reasonable price , decent staff . some folks better than others , but generally helpful and sincere . it's like vegas in that , if you stay there , you are staying for location , not for the room . it's right in the middle of the island and walking to 5th ave . , and times square . and not a bad can north and south cab to other attractions . it's truly a tourist hotel in that sense . wifi internet access is free in the lobby , nominal charge in the rooms , which are old , but updated for the most part ( no tub though in our rooms ) . the lobby and bar are very quaint and friendly . one of the best things about the hotel . my guests enjoyed the stay , it was a pleasant one . i will probably be back . but i might poke around the sofitel a couple doors down , we'll see .
we did not want to leave ! this hotel is really gorgeous and the details are so brilliant ! our room was beautiful and the tub was fabulous . my husband and i were with our 6 year old daughter . the pool is small but she enjoyed it . there are two restaurants in the hotel and we ate at the casual restaurant and it was delicious . we had had lunch there months ago and dinner on a saturday night was lively . we had a drink at the bar and it was cozy . the formal restaurant was closed . we had a tour of it the last time we visited and it is beautiful and i hope to eat there someday ! every morning we had room service . they did not leave the cart - they just come back in an hour ! no cart in your way . and you do not have to call to have it picked up ! also , before we arrived i asked for a movie for our daughter . it was waiting at the front desk when we arrived . we cannot wait to go back !
pros : 24 hr business center ( free internet but only 2 terminals , printing ) . free breakfast buffet . nice staff . fridge and sink in suites ( suites same price as non - suites ) . comfortable conference rooms and abundant food service . rooms were comfortable / clean , not top of the line but doesn't require remodeling . free onsite parking . cons : all vending machines were out . no shuttle service from phx , my ride cost $ 38 before tip ( lots of surcharges and $ 2 / mile from the airport ) . hotel does provide shuttle bus to nearby places . bus stop a few blocks away ( $ 2 . 50 for all day pass ) . mall , stores , cvs , restaurants nearby and walkable . this is a 3 star hotel - no valet services , or other services you expect of a " full service " hotel . other : hotel is frequented by soccer groups and other groups , so may be a good group venue . i didn't take advantage of the golf course / pool , but it looked great .
i booked this hotel through expedia when i arrived the room was nothing like i expected close cramped quarters , asked for a view looked out onto a brick wall . freezing cold in room called and asked about the heat was told it comes on about 8 : 00 at night and that we have no control over it . you either froze or roasted no choice . the wall paper was coming off the walls the bathroom was in need of a complete remodel and the carpet in the room was absolutely filthy . to top it off my daughter was burned by the radiator heater when the cap blew off and steam was bursting all over in our room for over 5 minutes called down and told them we had a emergency and to turn the heater off they did not even bother to come upstairs and check this out . my daughter had her hand in a ice bucket the rest of the night . my daughter is 32 years old when she went down to get ice they were not the least concerned UNknown would never ever ever stay there again  marcia UNknown
we arrived all hot and bothered at nighttime and within half an hour had cooled down in the fantastic pool ( hot tip - they pipe music underwater ) and UNknown out on the pool beds . this was followed by a delicious meal at the hotel's mexican restaurant served by friendly and funny staff . there is a rooftop bar which we didn't get a chance to check out but i'm sure is great we stayed a total of two nights and were devastated to leave . the hotel staff were super friendly and cool , the room ( we had a junior suite ) was well priced and the philosophy toiletries were so great i ended up switching my usual shampoo to the one in the room . even though this hotel isn't smack in the middle of downtown , it was easy and quick to get downtown on the tram system the only complaint would be that the ac seemed to be a bit on the fritz . i imagine this would be more of a problem in the height of summer and probably specific to our room overall , i couldn't recommend this place enough
ok , great location , so give it serious props for that . i mean , you can be anywhere in the city in minutes thanks to it's connection to grand central station , but the hotel ? average . only the weary traveler would complain about escalators up to check in , but revolving doors that don't fit checked luggage , just kind of irritates me . the staff is friendly enough and the lobby is massive . impressive with a water fall . then because i pricelined my hotel i was stuck in a room that was amazingly bad . old . that's the best way to describe it . o l d . i realize trump did this as his first hotel decades ago , but it feels o l d . worn . cold . UNknown even . everything worked and the room was a nice size by nyc standards , though my view of the air conditioning unit was hysterical . it's not a bad place , just not the 4 star billing . one more thing , who still charges $ 14 . 00 a night for the internet . shame shame shame
i stayed at this hotel a few days while in town for the ffa national convention . the hotel was a little loud because of so many kids , but you couldn't really hear anything inside the room . the staff at the hotel was incredibly friendly and even waived the cost of my 3 days of parking when the machine had no receipt paper . the free breakfast was pretty good , french toast was delicious . the room was impressive and a great value for the $ 150 i paid . very large and well decorated . i think the bed was the most comfortable bed i've ever slept in at a hotel ( which says a lot , i travel for business 6 days a week . ) this is a great place to stay if you are going to something at the convention center . it's about a 5 minute walk from the hotel lobby . the parking garage was well lit and i definitely felt safe walking through it . there's a tgi fridays in the hotel which is also convenient to eat at . great stay , i'll absolutely stay there again !
we came to chicago for a conference , which was held at the sheraton and we were looking to save some money on the room . the location of the hotel was excellent , easy walking distance to lots of restaurants and stores . we walked to the conference and back daily . i have stayed in many a small hotel room in big cities , so opted for the upgraded room size when i booked the allerton . well , i would have hated to see the smaller rooms ! we were in a corner which was nice , but barely had room to move around the bed . i even went back down to the check - in desk to make sure i got assigned the upgrade , and they were not very nice about it . well , the upside was the room was clean and convienent . the elevators were very slow and cramped . good hotel as a home base for sight - seeing or buisness trip , not good if you want to lounge in your room or are traveling with a family . worked for us for the money , overall .
stay at the downtown omni for 3 nights and loved it . the hotel service staff is friendly and efficient . i called several times for someone to come to my room and they were always there within 5 minutes . i also signed up for their rewards program , for free , and received immediate benefits , such as water at check - in , free turn down , free drinks in the mornings , and 2 pieces of laundry pressed and shoes shined . wireless internet in the rooms is spotty , but also free . drawbacks : the rooms and parking are expensive as is everything else downtown , but it is very convienent to call valet from your room and have your car ready when you get downstairs . there is also unlimited in and out , opposed to the cheaper free parking at the convention center . valet is $ 20 / nt and self is $ 12 . it is also very nice to stroll across the street to the water gardens . sundance square is about a 5 - 10 walk and perfectly safe day or night . great restaurants too .
so the area around la live and the la convention centre is now dominated by a monster ( and very posh ) jw marriot / ritz - carlton . i've stayed there and been very satisfied with it's efficient , super - new , albeit slightly UNknown atmosphere . and it's pricey . at around 50% of the rate - maybe you should consider staying at the figueroa a block down the street . yes - it's fairly basic , but still 100% clean and the place has a slightly faded charm that i can't help liking . its wonderful colonial lobby area has a great atmosphere - and the pool bar area is a little gem of a find . no corporate plastic smiles included . breakfast ? scrambled egg , a roll , coffee and juice - to you $ 6 . wi - fi - $ 5 for 24 hrs . ( the same at & t wi - fi is $ 15 in the sheraton downtown ) . i'm willing to trade a few slightly rough edges for atmosphere and value . and looking at the other reviews , i'm not the only one .
stayed a friday and saturday night in january . room was spacious , especially by nyc standards , and the bathroom & shower were enormous . bed was on a slightly raised platform , plenty of storage space beneath . the room had an ipod dock , and there is free wifi throughout the hotel . the pool ( located just off lobby - photo attached ) is a terrific feature , nicely heated in january , open 24 hours , with the swim - up bar open at 5pm . free breakfast the next morning - the food is fine but the room is rather small ; you may have to wait for a table . convenient location on a side street off times square . i prefer this to some hotels located directly on the square , where you get swept along by the flow of the tourist crowd as soon as you step out the front door . room mate is a chain and i was on their mailing list after a previous stay in another city - email promotional rate of 150 / night ( 177 w / taxes ) was a great value .
i stay at lots of marriotts for business . not sure why i picked this one . first off , courtyards don't make sense for gold / platinum members as they are the only marriott property where you don't get free breakfast . and here they wanted almost 15 bucks for some eggs and pancakes . as for this particular hotel . its ok if you need to walk to the navy yard , but the parking garage stinks . they even told me at the front desk it is " first come first served " . i guess if you get in to town late you are in trouble because there is no other parking around . rooms were on the smallish side , but clean . tv service was spotty , internet connection was typical ( i . e . mediocre at best ) . staff was friendly overall . i'd stay again if i had to . i . e . if i was in town , with no car , had a meeting at the navy yard , etc . and i suppose it would have been nice if there was a nats game !
although i UNknown a little older than your average standard hotel guest , i was greeted by the front desk hipsters with total respect and made to feel comfortable during my entire stay . i requested and received a high floor , actually the floor shared with the fitness room , very convenient ! the view from my room was absolutely spectacular , i could see across new york . pros : cool video UNknown in the elevator , stylish guests , approachable hotel staff , invisible housekeeping staff ( things magically happened when necessary ) , electrical outlets in all the right places , platform bed looking out to an incredible view ( just like sleeping in the clouds ) , excellent fitness room , top floor bar with exceptional drinks and beautiful people , pain points : awkward shower / tub combo that was hard getting in and out of , remembering to close blinds before hopping into the shower , small room footprint - no space to spread out or relax . all - in - all a great hotel experience at a reasonable UNknown value that i would readily entertain again in a heartbeat .
first , we stayed on points , and this was a good value for the amount of points required . our room was large and clean and new . now for the bad : the staff was impersonal - my husband checked us in , and as our family walked in , no one at the desk acknowledged us ( the desk and lobby were empty ) . the kids wanted to swim in the indoor pool , and it was trashed - dirty towels everywhere , trash left out and no clean towels . when we asked at the desk for pool towels , she replied " there are some in there " . we told her there were not , and she insisted on coming to look for herself then stormed off to bring more . while in the pool area , she did not clean up a thing . there is no breakfast offered , so we headed up to the local heb grocery every morning . on our last night , there was a auto break - in on a car parked right in front of the hotel . definitely will not be back .
we both loved san francisco , really can't believe how it changed for worse - swarms of homeless tramps stroll the streets asking for change . a lot of people try to cheat on tourists ( similar to paris and rome ) asking for charity UNknown or trying other types of scam . unfortunately it seems that the epicenter of the above is within hotel adante neighborhood . the hotel is 3 blocks from union sq , yet we never managed to run through without being engaged by a smelly UNknown . furthermore , the receptionist in the hotel was a sleep when we arrived and behaved like drunk checking us in . the breakfast is very poor . fortunately , there are about all the disadvantages of hotel and its location . what you get for your money is a good value : rooms with bedroom ( king size , very comfortable bed ) and small living room , two tvs with dish network ( a lot of channels ) , fridge , safe . the advantage of the location is that it is really close to all the sf attractions , bart station and cable cars .
overall we enjoyed our stay . we had the room with 2 bunk beds , which is advertised as shared - as it's a hostel . there were 2 of us and nobody joined us throughout the 7 days we stayed . the bathrooms were cleaned daily and the showers are very decent . it also has washing machines for travellers that need to use the laundry . there is a microwave and water machine to use . there was a fridge in our room as well , accompanied by an old - UNknown televison . to get into the hostel / hotel you need a keycard . this is very good for security . the music practice area below has a curfew of 11pm i think , and this is strict and they keep to the rules so by 11pm it will be quiet .  . the manager sean is a very nice guy and will help you with any problems you have . i urge you to visit chinatown as much as possible when you're in san francisco . it is truly epic ! watch out the old chinese men don't spit on your feet !
this was a pre - business 2 - day stay for me at sf . apart from the location of the hotel , nothing seemed to bother me . the lobby ambiance was very impressive ! concierge service just took might heart away , never expected this here ! as a priority club member , i could check in within a minute , everything was ready for me on arrival , just a breeze ! the room was very spacious and nicely arranged ; was a bit disappointed with the bathroom , wasn't up to the mark , but i could definitely give it a side ! the mini - bar was nicely stacked , although i did not consume anything of it ! i am an instant coffee guy , but the coffee maker in the room was something against my preference ! nearby shopping district ( 7 - 8 min . walk ) , night clubs , eateries , did help a lot ! overall a nice package ! i would definitely recommend this to a solo traveler who might be at the hotel just during the nights and traveling or at business during the day .
the bryant park hotel have the best people . everyone we interacted with went above and beyond to make sure we had everything we wanted . best of all they were warm , approachable and eager to help . my daughter lost her beloved puppy . the staff searched the hotel , found the puppy and had it waiting for her in the lobby with a note that said " i missed you ! " this saved the trip for our youngest . it would have been so sad for her memory of her first trip to nyc to be , " that's where i lost puppy . " the location was perfect ! we enjoyed several hours in bryant park during our stay and it was so convenient to walk to times square , grand central station , and the empire state building . we had a junior suite which was big enough for a family of four . we used the couch as a bed and a roll - away bed . the couch was fine for our 11 year old . it might be a little small for a teenager or adult to sleep on .
me and my boyfriend stayed at hotel 31 for 5 nights . we had a room on the 6th floor with a view of the empire state building which was nice . we had a room with a shared bathroom and it turned out just fine . the 2 bathrooms on the floor were almost always available ( at least one of the two on the floor ) , and clean . we could have gone to the next floor if they would have been occupied but never had to . the room itself was pretty basic , a bed , desk , tv , phone and a sink . it was small but totally enough for the two of us . it was clean so we really can't complain about anything , for the price and location it's a very good value . i can well imagine staying at hotel 31 again . if you're looking for luxury then you should probably go somewhere else , but if you just need a basic room with a bed and toilet / shower , this is quite enough . who stays at their hotel room much in nyc anyway ?
great bed , very comfortable and the room had a lot of character . great part of town close to the subway but away from the loud hustle and bustle of upper manhattan . the temperature was fine as of 7 / 24 / 10 , and we had no problems with humidity like other guests were saying . there was a free breakfast which included the usual cereal and bagels , but also very yummy pastries and hard boiled eggs , coffee , juice , etc . the only reasons i'm not going 5 stars is because the free wireless was very weak , and only worked when we put the laptop in a certain position at the edge of the bed , and also the water pressure in the faucet was so weak that i had to wash my hands in the bathtub ! ( i'm guessing there might be restrictions on water in nyc in july , or they might have needed to UNknown some plumbing . i didn't ask , and if i did they might have fixed it , but we were only there 2 nights so it wasn't a huge deal . )
we spent a couple of days mid - week at the dupont hotel . it is located right on dupont circle with embassy row nearby as well as a metro station , a couple museums , nice cafes and restaurants , and a 15 minute walk to the white house . the staff was very helpful and attentive during our stay . the room is a bit trendy but still quite comfortable . it had heated floors in the bathroom , which had glass walls and doors limiting privacy a bit , a very comfortable bed , a flat screen tv , free wifi , but no iron and ironing board . one call to the front desk however produced them at the door within minutes . the bar was hopping even mid - week with drinks and food readily available and good service considering how full they were . if you grab a window seat you will have a nice view of dupont circle and the park so you can just relax and watch the scene outside . i would not hesitate to recommend this hotel to friends and colleagues or to stay again as a guest .
very nice and modern looking hotel . it is attached to the highland centre which is a shopping mall which is always a bonus : ) the hotel is round the corner from the stars on the floor , the UNknown theatre with the handprints on the floor , the kodak theatre and the disney theatre . if you are lucky enough , you may see a film premiere as apparently this is quite common on hollywood boulevard . we saw the rock of ages premiere during our stay and saw tom cruise etc . the hotel has a good view of the hollywood sign from the rooms . the rooms are lovely and big , including a nice big comfy bed . the rooms have a floor to ceiling window so you get good views of la and the surrounding area . would recommend this hotel to anyone . if you do go to la and want to travel around , go to the underground station you can get a $ 5 day ticket for the metro which includes buses as well , good way to get around since every thing is so spaced out in la .
the westin is a very convenient place to stay in if you are catching a very early flight or arriving late at lax , and are too tired to go on a long drive home . the rooms are spacious , quiet , clean and the beds large and comfortable . they also provide a free shuttle service to and from the airport and have a convenient self - or valet parking right at the premises . we have stayed here 3 times and it was all very satisfactory and pleasant . we found the staff to be quick , attentive and efficient ; and the guys driving the shuttle vans were very quick to help with the bags . the daily grill has a very good breakfast menu with generous portions - something always great to have when you are embarking on a very long journey . the lunch and dinner menus both offer good selections too . i was always sorry that it was just an overnight stay . i wish it could be longer . we would certainly go back again the next time there is a need for an overnight stay near the airport .
we were in phoenix for a soccer tournament and this is the hotel our team was required to stay in . it is located in a dicey area of town , so don't count on walking to nearby restaurants . this hotel is just a notch below average , but your experience will UNknown if you are unlucky enought to get one of the rooms that fronts i - 17 . the freeway noise is loud during the day and at night it will keep you up if the air conditioner is not running . they also have a lot of interior rooms where the sliding glass doors face the indoor pool area . these rooms are dark , and do not have any exterior windows . they also face the public area where everyone exits the elevators to get to the lobby and restaurant , and since the slider faces this thoroughfare you won't get any privacy . staff was nice at the hotel except the front desk manager . so if you don't like your room , get another right away . once you're under the roof , fix it help doesn't really want to help !
we traveled to dc to do our final summer vacation and to visit the white house . we didn't know where to stay with our dog when a family friend suggested the kimpton family of hotels . she did a search and found the george hotel . i called and made reservations because this was one of the only hotels that didn't charge extra for bringing your family pet . she also suggested to join the kimpton's intouch UNknown program . we absolutely loved the hotel , loved the rooms ( 2 queen beds , 2 adults and a 10yr old child ) , loved the staff and loved the location . we were practically around the corner from union station a very short walk . i can't say enough about this hotel , the way our dog was treated , they spoiled her and us , the staff - eugene , johnny & patrick . every evening from 5pm - 6pm we had wine while our dog welcomed guests and our son played the wii with the night manager . definitely will be looking for a kimpton hotel when we travel . we highly recommend the george !
i've stayed at the chancellor a couple of times , and for the first time i was slightly disappointed . i should point out the positives of the hotel still vastly out - weigh the negatives : the location , the quality of staff , the sweets and cookies etc . are all reasons why i would recommend the chancellor to someone who wanted to stay in downtown san francisco . however , i would now have to issue a couple of caveats to that recommendation , and that the hotel is just beginning to look a little bit tired . for example , when we went into our room , the first sight of the bathroom was not pleasant , with a bath - tub that had definitely seen better days to the extent that we decided to have showers during our stay . i know wes will read this , so i hope he takes this as constructed criticism from someone who genuinely likes this hotel - i would just like to point out to him that with some small UNknown in certain areas - redecorating the bathrooms , improving the tvs would not go amiss .
this was our first time in san francisco and the first time we had stayed at an omni . the reviews on tripadvisor were excellent and the price we got on the internet was very good . we stayed from april 12 for 3 nights . from the outset our experience of san francisco was great but the hotel made it a UNknown stay . we were taken from the superbly decorated entrance hall to our good sized room by a young man who was informative and keen to share his city with visitors . the room was modern , well UNknown and absolutely pristine . the fittings were brand new and care has been taken to maintain such good order . we took the muni pass which gives unlimited travel on the cable cars UNknown etc and saw all the sites except for alcatraz - we hadn't booked . in summing up we would recommend this omni to anyone . remember to join the omni club before you travel . the omni is excellent value for money because of the location , keen polite staff , lovely modern pristine room , and the general attention to detail .
we stayed at the sheraton universal for 7 nights in september 2012 . this hotel is amazing . upon check in the staff were soooo friendly and welcoming ! we were given free wifi internet for our entire stay . the hotel is very modern and has a lovely buzzing feel to it . our room was amazing . we stayed on the 10th floor and with a window the entire width of the back wall our view was breath taking , our room was kept clean and restocked through out our stay to a very high standard . we had breakfast included in our stay and the buffett was brilliant . the restaurant staff were lovely and brilliant with their service . we would highly recommend this hotel to anyone staying in the hollywood area . the subway is a short walk down from the hotel so easy to get to the main attractions . universal is a short 5 minute walk away and was fantastic to have pretty much at our front door . we had a fantastic stay here and want to say thank you to all at the sheraton for making us so welcome .
if you want to stay at a chain hotel , be close to times square as well as great dining and shopping then this is a pretty good location . i've been to new york several times but this trip i found to be the best location wise . i wanted to stay longer just so i could try more of the numerous restaurants that were within a block or two from the hotel . the rooms were redone , with black marble surfaces . i found the pillows to be too hard , yet my business associate , in a different room , found them to be too soft . the bathrooms are nice but very small . there are glass enclosed step in showers though which is a huge plus for me ( i hate bathtub showers ) . the two lobby bars are great and the breakfast buffet is plentiful ( including bread pudding ! ) . the maid staff were the friendliest i have ever encountered in all of my travels . the always stopped to say hello , have a nice day , etc . amazing . i would return to this hotel .
the aloft harlem is a new , modern property in a very convenient location . it's a two block walk to the 125th st subway station which is on the b and d express lines . only a couple of stops and you're at 42nd st . the hotel itself is clean and nicely decorated . rooms are huge for nyc , and have all the usual amenities - flat screen tv , large tile shower , coffee / tea maker , iron , safe , free wifi . kind of a cool vibe , like a more relaxed version of w hotels . the staff is what made our experience though . everyone was extremely friendly and helpful . we had the pleasure of dealing with UNknown and martha for most of our stay . they went out of their way to make sure we had everything we needed . we wanted to add a second room to our stay and they were extremely accommodating . they were always smiling and laughing with us and treated us like friends . they transformed what would have been a good stay in a nice hotel into a fantastic experience !
this was the worst hotel experience i have ever had . first of all , i called the front desk a couple days ahead of time to see if we could check in about an hour early . they said they would put a note under our reservation and do there best . we got there at 2 o'clock and when i asked the front desk if we could check in , she refused to even check to see if there was a room available . we waited around until 3 and when we finally got checked in , we were assigned to a room that was not cleaned yet . the next morning , the waffle iron was broken and the juice machine was not working as well . when i spoke to the manager about the horrible service he could have cared less , in fact , he raised his voice at me . he told me i had to call a 1 - 800 number to get the room refunded and the 100% satisfaction UNknown has UNknown . poor management and poor customer service at this establishment . don't waste your time with management here !
arrived around 1pm on saturday and used the self check - in kiosk . i was happy to be given a room , even though i was there two hours before official check - in time . stayed in room 2003 ( standard king ) . the room was very spacious , with a comfrotable bed , an armchair + ottoman , a large desk and a lot of extra room . the bathroom , on the other hand was disappointing . what the website describes as a luxurious bathtub is really a regular standard bathtub . in addition , the bathroom was tiny , and would have been better off with just a shower . the next day , at check out , i chose to use the self - check kiosk again , because the reception was incredibly crowded . my room had been charged for a one - night valet parking , which i had not used , so i had to check - out with the the reception to get that sorted out . other than that , no complaints , the grand hyatt is well located , crowded , and offers large rooms .
we loved this resort from the beginning . the entrance is grand and has great views of the hill country and golf course . the pros : loved the live music in the great room on friday and saturday night , loved the breakfast buffet we enjoyed every morning , loved that the resort was kid friendly , loved the kiddie pool , loved the large spacious bathroom . cons : rooms were smaller than expected and when you have a UNknown 3 year old - that's a challenge . the resort is so massive i was surprised the rooms were quite small . another con , free parking was a hike ( seriously pack a lunch ) , and finally the spa was nice but i expected more panoramic views of the resort from the spa . instead it felt a little sunken in , like you were in the basement . service by bell hops excellent ! vincent was really nice and tomas who waited us on at breakfast was really sweet . other service was okay - some lifeguards looked like they didn't want to be there - probably just really focusing on the kids .
i recently stayed for four nights at the hilton palacio del rio whilst at a convention in san antonio . the hotel is very well located in central san antonio and just a very short stroll to the convention center and is right on the riverwalk , one of san antonio's best features . also , the alamo is only a couple of blocks away . the hotel , although older than some in the city , is clean , safe and has excellent staff . i was upgraded when i checked in , to a suite with a good view of the city . the room was a little dated , but very comfortable and great value for money . the buffet breakfast was good and it is well worth booking a room with breakfast included , as it is a little expensive on its own . the hotel has a great irish pub downstairs , right on the riverwalk and the trolley ride stops right outside the hotel . for shopping , the rivercenter mall is a five minute walk . overall , a very good stay and will definately stay again when in san antonio .
i found what i thought was a great deal on priceline for two nights . upon receiving my confirmation from hyatt , the email included an email to address specific requests . i requested two queen beds which was confirmed and guaranteed by a hyatt employee . when we arrived it took two hours to get checked in . this was the worst checkin experience ever - i have been treated better at the red roof inn . i showed the desk clerk the email from the hyatt employee but still they continued to argue with me that the room was not reserved . we were given a room with two double beds and offered a 75 credit which was not properly credited to my bill . i am a passport member and will probably not return any time soon if ever . in the past i had always regarded the hyatt regency as a premier hotel brand , now i see it little more than junk status . if you are going to use third party sites to sell your UNknown rooms then the customer service needs to be the same as any other direct reserved purchase .
stayed here for 4 nights at end nov / early dec 05 and absolutley loved the lenox . in excellent position 2 mins walk to prudential centre shopping centre and newbury street ( posh shops ) 1 block away . plus the public common and gardens are just 10 mins walk . boston is fabulous to walk around as so compact and very safe . our room was excellent , overlooking the boston library , bathrooms are small but no smaller than most london hotels and we found the bathrobes were a nice touch . we were very UNknown with hotel and staff were pleasant and polite . there are loads of shops , bars and resturants which were all reasonable . back bay is a relaxed part of boston and well recommended to british visitors if you dont want the rush of nyc . well recommended is the old town trolley tour which shows all the sites , we would have liked to have down the duck tour but it finished the day we arrived . flights with virgin were fabulous and hotel is only a 20 min ride from airport . well recommended . thanks lenox .
our family stayed at hotel majestic the last week of june . we are two adults with two teenagers . we didn't want to spend tons of money , but wanted a nice hotel with charm and character . we thought this hotel fit the bill perfectly . it was centrally located in the city - we were able to walk to chinatown , and also to union square , and the piers were not to far away at all . the front desk people were very helpful and friendly . the room we had was a suite and there was plenty of room for the 4 of us . the furnishings and bathroom tiles were victorian style and very pretty . there were UNknown in the room ( the floor on the way to the bathroom was gently sloping , for instance ) , but that just added to the fun of staying in an older hotel . and there were beautiful details and touches - like the chandelier light fixtures and the fluffy bathrobes they provided . i thought the hotel was a great choice and we would stay there again if we were in town .
i booked hotwire after reading other reviews and paid to upgrade my room after reading that the rooms on the lower floors are tiny . i am so glad i did . i was on an upper floor and the rooms were a good size - but definitely not huge . the bed was very comfortable and they had a lot of amenities . the only thing i wasn't impressed with was the shower - seemed very old but worked so whatever . also , i loved the complimentary happy hour for the upper room levels - free beer , wine , UNknown for 2 hours with cheese and crackers . overall , i would stay there again only if i had the same room .
arrived with 10 friends , for 3 day stay . beds and rooms too small to accomodate families , ( one of our families a group of 3 was given 1 single bed for all 3 on first night ! ) no wardrobe space , in fact , did i say , no space full stop ! one families case was UNknown with and our personal belongings ( toiletries ) were removed . the hotel staff were not concerned and although they claimed to involve security , we waited for security but they didnt turn up . even though they knew we had a flight to catch ! generally a nice modern hotel from a foyer perspective but the rooms and service let it down .
i was kinda worried after reading reviews on here after we booked this for a wedding we were attending . but i really was pleasantly surprised . i mean the people UNknown bout the carpets being stained and the condition of the lobby . come on its alright ! staff was very friendly , the bar was clean and they threw good drinks at ya . the bed was not that comfy , the room could use updating , yes . but we were out and about for the most part and it was clean and comfy and served its purpose with no complaints . also , room service for breakfast when hungover was more than appreciated ! oh and location , location , location !
this is a great place to stay if you are attending a meeting at the convention center which is only a few blocks away . the room was comfortable and quiet despite construction out the window . the staff were wonderful and helpful . the food at the manager's reception was average but the ambience was excellent . breakfast was good although the toaster was very , very slow . there is free computer and internet access off the lobby although you do have to stand up and it tends to be slow . the first few days , when it was warm outside , they had lemonade in the afternoon in the lobby . when it turned cold they switched it to spiced cider .
i can see if some people might consider this hotel " UNknown " or " quaint " , but it is simply dirty ! i am not one to write many reviews but i just had to on this hotel . i had the luxury of looking inside several rooms during my stay and they all had the same issues : stained carpet , stained lamp shades and furniture . the hotel was spooky . the room we stayed in literally had a cafe table 4 feet from the foot of our bed . it is just a very strange hotel and just not my style . if you like dirty and creepy , then it might work well for you . i would reconsider .
my wife and i were celebrating our 24th wedding anniversary . we had been to the royalton previously for drinks and dinner ( a great experience ! ) and decided we would stay over after going to the theater . the staff , when learning it was our anniversary , could not have been better in how we were treated . it seemed everyone associated with the hotel wanted to make it a memorable weekend for us . they went out of their way to be accommodating and gracious . my wife and i have decided that the royalton will be our residence in new york whenever we stay in the city . it was one of the best hotel experiences we have ever had .
this hotel had a good location for where i needed to be ( the UNknown ) , but i didn't have hot water . i asked for it to be fixed , along with the slow drain and low water pressure . the next morning , the same thing . they gave me a $ 40 discount on my room . $ 40 ! it was $ 350 a night and they only took off $ 40 in all . when it comes to choosing a hotel , i want it to be clean , relatively quiet , and have hot water . seems reasonable enough for $ 350 a night . i won't be staying here again and suggest you avoid it as well .
we visited the affinia 50 last week and we had the holiday of our lives the hotel was fabulous and the staff were the best they were so helpful and so nice they could not do enough for us . we met carmel on the reception when we arrived such a nice person so helpful and looked after us with a beautiful room brian was the same so professional and chatty and helpful he even booked a table for us at the pig and whistle . we would love to return and i would highly recommend the hotel with great staff each and every one of them , they staff even organised our transfer to airport great success . hope to see you all again .
the hotel is located in a very central place , right at the beginning of the magnificent mile and very close to the shore line that allows you to jog or walk by the lake all the way to navy pier and the millennium park . rooms were big , 2 double beds and very clean . the bathroom was big and updated . only negative remark is that breakfast was al a carte and not buffet and when you are a family with kids that is not so comfortable . also internet connection in the room wasn't free ( 10 dollars per day ) . when you pay almost 200 per room you can at least demand that internet connection should be free of charge
i traveled to nyc on a friday to catch the last showing of a broadway musical , and i am glad that i pick a hotel in financial district instead of midtown or times square . this hotel is away from the police siren and all the hustle bustle you would typically get in manhattan , especially on the weekends . i was given the city view room on 44th floor ( the highest floor ) , but i didn't encounter any problems regarding the wait for the elevators . again , probably it was because i stayed during the weekend . the staff was helpful and the room is clean , i would definitely recommend to anyone who is traveling solo or on business .
this is such a neat hotel , i love the drury chain period , but this is so different than the rest . the gorgeous original lobby of this former bank building is still quite stunning , the elevators appear to be the orginal as some other details . but everything else is new and nice ! we had a corner room overlooking city and riverwalk . windows all around for great views . just step out your door and seconds to the riverwalk near all the restaurants . valets were so courteous and pleasant . we just left our car and did not take it again until we checked out . price of room quite a value . we will be staying here again !
our group stayed here the night before a cruise out of the jacksonville port . our room was comfortable , clean , and a great value . i was happy with the experience when we boarded the ship , but it was after we returned that the customer service really shined . apparently there were many people taking the best western shuttle back . instead of packing us in like sardines or making our group split up and wait for another shuttle run , cecil ( the general manager ) actually drove two of us in his personal car back to the hotel . this goes above and beyond expectations . cecil really does want to make sure the hotel guests are taken care of .
we were supposed to stay at the lenox march 26 - 28 , 2012 . we received a phone call that a water pipe broke and due to a full hotel we were going to be moved to a different hotel . we were unhappy and they were more than apologetic . they not only took care of our bill at this hotel but invited our family to the lenox for dinner at one of their restaurants . kelly , the guest consultant was over the top nice and was so friendly , kind and wanted to make sure our stay at another hotel went well . we plan to stay at the lenox whenever we got to boston because of her terrific customer service .
this is a great place to stay in downtown denver if you don't want to spend too much . near the capital , the art museum , 16th street mall . 16th street has a free shuttle bus , so it's very easy to get around . i have stayed at a lot of comfort inns and some of them are pretty bad . but this one was surprisingly nice . i found out when i was there that it is attached to the historic brown palace hotel ( was built in the 50's i think , as an addition to the brown palace and called the brown towers ) . staff very friendly and helpful . and like i said , location location location !
our first time to ny . location location location - walking distance to almost everything and close to the subway for everything else . room size is great for two , had an inside room so there is no view . $ 25 a night for housekeeping was a bit much but it saved tipping every time you turned around . nice to come back to the room and have it cleaned every day . didn't use the partial kitchen much but it was nice to have a microwave and small fridge . concierge service was very helpful with directions , tickets for shows etc . i would pass on the timeshare presentation , just not the way to kill 1 1 / 2 hours .
good hotel for folks passing through . rooms could be a bit bigger but well decorated with modern furnishings . staff was generally helpful but restaurant service left a little to be desired . i stayed here with starwood points and i believe it was either 3 , 000 or 4 , 000 per night depending on if it was a weekday or not . for this amount of points , it was a good deal . for my last night , i did cash + points and it was like $ 30 plus 1 , 250 points i believe . again a very good deal . one thing i appreciated is that there is a wired internet connection ( ethernet ) in each room .
i recently spent four night at the hilton garden inn at grand and state . this is an excellent hotel in a great location . the red line subway stops right outside the front door . the hotel is only a few years old and very clean and in good condition . it is not a small hotel but it is much smaller then most of the large " convention " hotels . there is no wait to check in or ask a question at the front desk . i found all the employees to be pleasant and helpful . there is a great restaurant on the ground floor . i would UNknown this hotel to anyone traveling to downtown chicago on business or pleasure .
this is a large convention hotel . it has all sorts of services and restaurants . rooms are clean and decent size . efficient , if impersonal service . good location just south of the chicago river , so is within walking UNknown ( in good weather ) of the magnificant mile shops , eateries and attractions . underground connection to the UNknown center which allows access to some shopping and dining without going outside . this hotel was way too crowded for my taste , but if you are attending a convention and this is one of the convention hotels , it is a fine choice . however , if you are a tourist , other properties are more likely to suit your needs .
horrible ! i called to reschedule my reservation over 36 hours before hand . i called them and the very unfriendly staffer ( UNknown ) informed me that there was nothing she could do to prevent my card from being charged . i asked for a manager and was told there was none . she told me the only thing i could do was write an email to reservations . i did that and was again told there was nothing they could do . this time by jackie . and there was still no manager ! there was an assistant manager , but he / jim was off today and could not be reached . stay at a normal chain and save yourself the aggravation !
when we first pulled up to the embassy suites , the outside looked a bit plain .  .  . but the inside of this hotel , and the hotel itself are absolutely fabulous ! we had a 13 year old and 2 year old travelling with us , and both of them had a wonderful time ! it is highly recommended that you order room service , as we frequently dine at 5 star restaurants in the la area , and the room service at this embassy suites was some of the best food we have ever had ! the quantity and quality of the breakfasts are great as well . the entire experience of the embassy suites is highly recommended by us !
hotel is in a brilliant location , within good walking distance to empire state building , macys , 5th avenue and time square . , hotel staff were not very friendly , room was small and very dark , only window looked out onto a brick wall which was about 3 feet away , so we couldn't tell what the weather was like until we went down to the lobby . breakfast was disappointing especially as the first day we had breakfast with the rep and were treated to proper plates , knives and forks and then for the rest of the stay had to contend with paper plates and plastic knives etc . would recommend for location , but that is about all , sorry
the cable tv was horrible , the desk clerk was no help when asked for a guide of channels , they didn't have one . the bath tub had dirt left in it . has every cable channel but espn , msnbc ( UNknown fox news and cnn ) . the internet is slow . there is nothing out by here , no fast food . it was close to the speedway but not worth it even the cheaper rates . clerk said she'd reset the cable as some channels weren't working . this seriously is nothing like other days inns i have stayed in . this place is a nap town nightmare . the ice machines weren't working either on a very hot day .
i stayed here for business end of september into early october and i have to say my stay was pleasant . problems came in when i was to check out and how they did their UNknown . upto now , i am still waiting to get a refund - i love the location and everything but not how their customer service spoke with me when i was checking back on how my refund was to work . the rooms are very nice , spacious especially for the room that i was in and UNknown , love the bar . i also had a chance to eat at the scala restaurant which had amazing food . great experience , just watch out for the money issues .
after alot of hours searching for hotels to stay in we eventually settled on the liberty and what a gem it turned out to be . the hotel is modern and beautifully finished the staff are professional and yet not in your face . the rooms are bigger than expected immaculately clean and the bed is too comfy . with regards to getting around boston the city centre is just a 15 min walk and the t station is next door which leaves everywhere within easy access . it is pricey to eat and drink in but the food and service is second to none . i will return to boston next december and will find it extremely difficult to stay anywhere other than here .
this was a very nice and clean hotel . the decor was impressive . rooms clean , quiet . internet was affordable at 7 . 99 . stayed there to attend a conference and host a small event / meeting . catered food was excellent compared to many hotels . turn down service was a nice touch . not much in the line of public meeting area , but it looks like they are remodeling a bar area possibly . only concern was the lack of a top sheet on the bed . i guess it's the european way , but i personally don't like to sleep directly under a hotel comforter even when it's down . free use of fitness center was real plus !
the promotions make the magnolia sound like a cozy " boutique " hotel but the reality , for me , was more " budget . " not bad i guess , but nothing impressive . my room was average sized but dark , a bit worn , and not well cleaned . the bathroom , however , was very clean . the air conditioning is surprisingly noisy . the hotel is well situated downtown , but the immediate surroundings are a bit sketchy at night . the breakfast buffet was adequate but nothing at all special . be sure to budget for overnight parking - it's expensive ( i paid up to $ 25 ) if you park at the garage that adjoins the hotel .
everything about this hotel is satisfactory or a bit better as i expect from a large hotel chain . the rooms are comfortable and a good size . shower was very powerful which was a pleasant surprise and all areas seemed clean . the neighbourhood the hotel is situated in however is not the best . in england we would call it UNknown . it was fine getting down to the tourist areas of pier 39 by bus and picking up the tram so by day the location is good . for breakfast i went to sam's diner across the road which was great and ate much more cheaply and by the looks of the dining room at the hotel ate much fresher ingredients too .
we stayed april 2012 - this property is located downtown close to sixth street , but right next door are major construction projects ( hyatt to be completed spring 2013 ) . workers begin hammering , drilling and banging before 6 am mon - sat ( only sundays off ! ) and also work all night long on occasion to pour concrete . it is a loud and unavoidable UNknown to any chance of rest or sleep ! the room though quite comfortable offers no barrier to the construction noise - no fan or bathroom vent is available to attempt to drown out the chorus of banging and hammering . stay somewhere else away from the construction zone if you want to get any sleep .
if you don't want to pay an arm and a leg in los angeles , then this is the place . one of the less expensive motels in burbank / glendale / n . hollywood area . neighborhood isn't great , but there is an ihop close by and the motel location is close to everywhere we needed to be . rooms were clean & equipped with micro and little fridge . cleaning staff was very friendly and helpful . continental breakfast had few choices , none of which were very good . i drink decaf coffee , which isn't available in the rooms or in the breakfast area . all in all , i would stay here again because of the price and location .
you really feel like you're a part of something special when you stay here . we've stayed here twice , once in a normal room and once in a suite . both were gorgeous and had great views . the suite was opulent and really special . every aspect of this hotel is well thought out . if you want to make your trip to new york special , then choose the plaza . the location is also wonderful for shopping , walking around , and being near to so many places you want to go like museums , rockefeller center , and lincoln center . we stayed here for the macy's parade and it was a perfect walk to columbus circle to watch it .
the room would have been a great value for the area . although everything is exceptionally small it's in a great location and was worth the rate . however , the fan from the building below will not allow you to get any sleep ! it constantly turns on and off . and i would not recommend valeting your vehicle . if you drove where are you to park then ? good luck figuring that much out . we ended up paying just as much for parking as it was for the room and didn't even know until we checked out ! you think if you were going to charge that much you would make sure you sited the rates prior to taking somebody's keys !
we bought the groupon . we booked the room and the only groupon room was a handicap room . i begged not to take up a handicap room for someone who may need it . if i paid $ 50 more , i could have a " normal " room . the entire bathroom / shower was tile . the shower water covered the entire bathroom floor - i slipped . the elevator ran up / down all night . there was supposed to be a fridge but it turned out to be a mini bar that could not be opened - it was broken . : ( at breakfast , there were no high chairs available for my 1 year old . never again .
i have stayed at ota twice . ota is a great value in every sense . i love the location on the upper west side ( 77th and broadway ) . the neighbourhood has a very livable , UNknown , residential feel . there is easy access to the subway , great restaurants , zabars , lincoln centre , central park and various museums . standard rooms are not lavish but are clean and comfortable . the beds are top notch . the staff is friendly and helpful across the board . i feel at home . the elevators are on the slow side , but that is a very minor annoyance . the pricing is very good for nyc . i recommend ota highly .
this hotel was a great find , the lower east side is a great place , i have stayed in midtown previously but this beats the midtown hotels hands down . the whole experience is delightful , in the uk you can find individual hotels with individual rooms that are a labour of love , i have found one here in new york . the staff are very helpful and we were greeted by a relaxing glass of wine and some very good advice about where to visit . the hotel is within walking distance of china town , little italy so there is no shortage of good restaurants , can UNknown bunny chow further down orchard street , UNknown the waiter is great fun .
fun , funky , delightful hotel we loved the futuristic lobby decorated with rock memorabilia . our room was very modern and very comfortable the only problem was we were opposite the gym which is open 24 hours a day and we could hear people running on the treadmill at all hours . special thanks to the concierge , robbie who was so helpful and friendly . the hotel is opposite the trolley station making it easy to get around . it is situated in the gas lamp area which is filled with amazing restaurants and shops our favourite restuarant was cafe 21 . great food and delightful staff . great hotel . just different enough to make it a fun experience but still comfortable .
this was a great find . a small hotel with a great staff , plus a sweet dog to boot . they have a shuttle that will take you to the convention center for a low price . you get a fridge , microwave and coffee maker in your room . there is a market about a block away so you can stock your fridge with water or soda . also ice cream store within walking distance and a mexican restaurant . they UNknown small fitness room but it has what you need . the neigborhood around the hotel driving in seemed a little on the rougher side , but i felt very safe walking to the store by myself . would stay here again .
i had a layover in denver and my travel agent found this hotel that was recommended on tripadvisor . the hotel was very clean , very quiet and the rooms were well appointed . the airport shuttle service runs every 30 minutes and was complimentary . on check in , ( friendly and helpful ) i was encouraged to enjoy their happy hour with free beverages and tacos . the hotel is great . my only complaint is the poor tv reception ( grainy and static ) . very good place to stay . maybe a little more costly , but throw in the free dinner ( if you get there in time ) makes this hotel a decent value for an overnight at dia .
stayed here for 2 days in june and had a nice time in sf as part of our vacation . room is what you would expect from holiday inn in the city centre . pros . 1 . clean room , 2 . courteous staff , 3 . close to bart station . 4 . surprisingly quiet , given its city location . 5 . close to city hall and concert hall . cons . 1 . location - a lot of down and outs on the sidewalk during the day . i would stay here again ; but i'd like to stay in a different part of town next time . however , i would recommend the hotel to anyone wanting to book it .
this hotel is right next to sea world . i love this hotel . i've stayed there so many times . if you have kids , this is the perfect place to stay ! the pool is nice , and there's a great lazy river . if you stay at this property , they will also give you access to hyatt wild oaks ranch , with is a couple of blocks away and just gives you more access to more pools . they really focus on customer service here , and if you're not happy they try to redeem themselves . the first time i visited , my husband and i seriously thought about buying a hyatt timeshare . that's how much we liked it .
i must admit , after reading the reviews regarding the sheraton suites philadelphia airport , i was worried . however , being a loyal spg member , i decided to not be intimidated by the reviews and make my own UNknown on the quality . my son and i were very happy we did . this is a nice hotel ; no issues with the parking , railing , rooms , nor noise . this is a great place . and the breakfast was very good too ! didn't eat dinner as the front desk recommended a place for a philly cheesesteak sandwich . UNknown on south street ( ? ) . it was really good . rest assured . you'll not have any issues .
spent one night at this property for the big 10 championship game . wish i could have stayed longer . location was perfect not only for the game at lucas oil stadium , but for the related ncaa events at the indianapolis convention center . there is a UNknown of all marriott chains in the immediate area . there are indoor walkways between the hotels and convention center ; no need to battle inclement weather or cross busy downtown streets . while there are numerous eating establishments within blocks , there is a tgi friday's in the fairfield building . staff was extremely pleasant and helpful . complementary breakfast plentiful with adequate seating . there is a daily fee for parking in the adjacent structure .
we had a short stay here overnight to catch a plane early the next morning . it has everything you'd expect in a residence inn - clean and comfortable . bedroom in our 1 br unit was on the small side , but that's to be expected for an urban location . staff was very helpful and had a good list of suggestions for places to eat nearby . they had breakfast to go items ready for our early departure before the buffet was fully open . we were fortunate to have a room near the front of the property , so navigating the place was not a problem at all . definitely recommend if you're transiting through the phoenix airport or have business nearby .
we had a 4 day break staying at the bedford - first impression of the foyer / reception was positive , its a petty the rest of the hotel was not as impressive - the suite was inadequate for 4 adults . 1 twin room with ensuite bathroom which was shared by all persons and 2 sofa beds in the lounge area for the other two adult members of my party , these two beds had very thin matresses on which all springs could be felt through , when we asked for alternative rooms the male on reception was unhelpful - which totally upset the break . the toilet overflowed over the bathroom floor . i wish i could recommend this hotel but unfortunately not .
forced out of our home for 3 nights due to work on our house in feb . two bedroom / bath suite was $ 169 . cost compared nicely with smaller suite hotels in area . this offered more room for a few more $ . definitely room enough for family of 5 . place was quiet , clean and staff was great . they didn't seem put out by having to deal with a family ( with 3 boys ) at all . breakfast was normal ri offering - great . stuff , plus a free buffet dinner that worked for us . made being out of our house as painless as possible . would recommend to any family needing temp . living quarters .
booked the palomar based on the excellent reports , but have to say i was definitely underwhelmed . after travelling for 31 hours i was given the smallest room in the place which was right next to the fitness centre . the sound of weights hitting the floor at 6 : 30 am is not the most pleasant alarm . had initially enrolled in the kimpton in touch UNknown , but wasn't recognised or provided with any of the perks . should have complained i know , but as the hotel was so busy i bit my tongue . have had feedback from management following completion of their survey . the happy hour would be great if you can get to it at 5 pm !
my daughter and i stayed at the acme hotel for 3 nights in june . we really liked the hip decor in the lobby , that included lava lamps and in our room , that included a UNknown wall and light up lips on the bathroom mirror . i enjoyed amenities like the complimentary morning coffee delivery service and free breakfast . their sign states they will only be offering the free breakfast until their restaurant is finished in the fall . that's too bad ! the location of the acme is very convenient to michigan ave . the rate i got at this hotel was a great deal on book it . i would definitely recommend this hotel for couples or families with teenagers .
we stayed in one bedroom suite . it was very spacious . the full - size kitchen was very nice . the kitchen was stocked with just what was needed to make a nice meal . room was clean . the complimentary breakfast buffet was very good . lots of choices . only complaint is you can hear lots from other rooms and the hall . no outside noise though . we didn't use the parking , as it was $ 20 a day . a person could have parked in the garage right next door for $ 8 a night on the weekend . had we driven , we would have parked next door . great location for enjoying the downtown shopping and nightlife .
when we arrived at the hotel and were given a key to the room , we found it had not been cleaned . we returned to the desk and explained the situation in a joking manner . the receptionist was dismayed and upgraded our room immediately . - lucky us ! this room was extremely comfortable and tastefully decorated and overlooked the hotel swimming pool . this hotel was elegant and their dining section enjoyable . i would certainly return there . parking at the hotel was very pricey but , then again , parking in la is expensive anywhere . front desk staff were extremely helpful even to the point of printing my boarding pass as i was flying home earlier than my husband .
we stayed here for 5 nights in september . we found trying to choose a hotel in nyc very difficult there is so much choice and if you've never been before it is very difficult to know which location is best . the eastgate tower was very reasonably prices and in a good location there was bars and restaurants on your door step or it was walking distance to the empire state , grand central , and central park . although the lobby area of the hotel is slightly dated the hotel and room were clean . we choose a suite which had a small kitchen which was ideal for our stay . when i return to nyc i would seriously consider staying here again .
my last - minute decision to attend a conference in hollywood had me searching for a hotel near the conference venue and ( although the reviews were mixed ) the price was right and the location was within walking distance . the room was clean , nicely furnished , and appeared to have been recently redecorated . all in all a fair deal . my timing was bad because there were 150 high school students from the netherlands in the hotel UNknown with my stay ; so the two small elevators were overwhelmed and the hallway door slamming seemed to go on at all hours of the night . i guess i'll check next time to make sure i'm not on the youth hostile floor .
i've stayed here several times and always found it a pleasant experience until now . last time i stayed at the cp - lax , i was not a UNknown member and yet i was given a fabulous upgrade . this time , as a pc member , i received no consideration other than a coupon for a free beverage ( with an expiration date prior to my check - in date ) at the exorbitantly - priced restaurant . an unpleasant surprise awaited me when i got to my room : a $ 2 . 95 charge for 2 hours of internet ( more $ for additional time , of course ) . what the f ? even best western doesn't charge for internet .
stayed at the four points on a friday night in early march of 2012 . received a good deal and the location is awesome , right in downtown san jose , one block from the convention center . the hotel property was nice , but nothing to write home about . they charge $ 20 for self parking , which is not bad for this part of town . check - in was smooth and friendly . room was small , but clean and comfortable . amenities were nice . our room was UNknown to have a flat screen tv , but did not . kind of a bummer , but no big deal . for the price and location , it was worth it .
stayed at the omni for 3 nights as part of our honeymoon . we booked a standard room , but when we arrived we were told we were being placed in the penthouse suite as it was our honeymoon ! the room was huge with two 42 inch lcd UNknown ! it had a huge lounge , 2 bathrooms and a kitchen with beautiful views of the bay ! the pool area was very nice and relaxing and all the staff were great . excellent location to shopping and restaurants . would stay here again if in san diego . only down side would be the train noise , but if you have a high level room then it will not bother you as much .
stayed in a second floor deluxe room for 4 days . room faced the bay with king size bed , seems like most rooms had two queens . refrigerator and coffee pot in room . liked the hotel , staff was friendly . breakfast buffet was better than most hotels that include a breakfast buffet , each day had eggs , pancakes or waffles , fresh fruit , muffins , etc . nice location , centrally located to almost everything . only minor dislikes : our balconey was very small , only held one chair ( room 227 ) , $ 5 charge for parking , why when you could park right in front in the street for free . will definitely stay here again .
this hotel was amazing ! the rooms were nice and comfortable . great view ! the staff was the most accomodating staff that i have ever experienced . they allowed us to do an early check in due to our flight status . they upgraded our room to allow us to check in early . they were great in all aspects of service . i would recommend them to anyone . the only comment for improvement that i would have is that they need a shuttle service within 2 miles of hotel . san diego has a great public transit system so we did not get a car . however , it was quite a walk to and from the hotel to catch the bus .
we stayed at the island palms for 2 nights as part of a 2 week tour of california . the hotel is in a fairly quiet location on shelter island and offered free parking , but is approximately 15 min drive from central san diego and the main tourist attractions . our room was fairly average , given the star rating of the hotel and as a ground floor room only had a view over the car park which was disappointing . in general the hotel didn't meet our expectations based on the other reviews we had read . if we were travelling to san diego again we would choose a hotel within walking distance of downtown san diego as parking can be quite expensive .
the hotel was clean and staff was nice except when booking they are misleading about difference in rooms . website made room seem like it would have more windows so a better view and when we got to our room it overlooked a roof and no view . we complained and they said that it's just a marketing come on , but did move us to a better room . if you like staying in the UNknown area of ny ( yes it is near times square ) then this is fine . we stayed since a wedding host suggested it to be close to events , but if in ny - so much better to stay in the high 40's - 50's west side .
we can't say enough wonderful things about our experience at the w . the location is amazing . just a block away from the white house . the staff was incredibly accommodating , and friendly . just like most w hotels , the lobby bar was very hip with fabulous drinks ! our room was quite large , very clean and the beds are super comfy ! we enjoyed the complimentary rides in the hotel acura several times while we were sightseeing ~ they were happy to drop you off anywhere in the city within a 5 mile radius which saved us a ton on cabs ! we really loved the w , and would not hesitate to stay there again or recommend to friends !
my hotel choice turned out to be a wrong pick . cheap hotel ( aida hotel , UNknown a night , still overpriced for this low standard ) with slow free wifi , cheap complimentary donut breakfast , but include a smelly room ( UNknown ) , shared ( on corridor ) toilet and shower , very old fashioned deco and furniture ( has definitely seen better times ) , tv with very limited programs and without remote control , no fridge , no safe box . the best is actually the location , just next to exit civic centre muni station . would definitely not choose again and better you also dont . spend a bit more money to get a good sleep guarantee !
upon entering the room , it was so hot and stuffy that i immediately went to the window to open it . imagine my surprise when i discovered that the window was sealed shut . i never worry about getting a room with a / c in the city because the ocean breeze will always come through and cool things down . in fact , there was a strong breeze that evening but when we returned to the room it was too hot to sleep . the room had a ceiling fan with a smaller fan available but without cross circulation in the room - forget it ! i had a terrible night of no sleep as i tossed and turned trying to get comfortable .
stayed at the hotel for the UNknown exam , which was UNknown in mccormick place on dec 5 , 2008 . i booked a " winter getaway " package for $ 161 , for a standard room that included free parking . when i told them i was sitting for an exam , they automatically upgraded me to a large studio suite on the 22nd floor , with views of the loop and the lake . i know the area ( this is not an area where most will want to roam around late at night ) , so i didn't go outside much . but for the use of the convention center , it was everything i could have hoped for . great experience !
i've been in the hotel stay between july 5 and 7 with my wife and baby daughter . we had a nice stay there . nevertheless , when we checked out i was overcharged in $ 131 in relation to the mini - bar . the guy that checked in us was new and he did not tell us that if you touch a bottle the system automatically charges you . at the checkout they took it off from the bill but after checking my credit card statement they indeed charged me for the mini - bar . i've tried to contact the hotel several times to solve the problem but it seems that they are unwilling to deal with the problem . dr . UNknown
my family and i booked a 4 - person two double bed room with private bath for our stay in nyc and our stay was quite pleasant . for the price charged ( $ 150 plus tax and $ 3 . 50 staying charge ) , it was a really good deal b / c we got clean beds , towels , and some soap , private bath , private tv , and the location is great . it was close to everything , we could easily walk to the major attractions . for locations further away , we took the number 6 train and it goes literally up and down nyc . it was great . would def stay again for a cheap trip .
falls far below the traditional ritz - carlton standards . service is very poor and is only comparable to a low - end motel chain . management is impolite , UNknown and offensive . rooms are well - equipped and good size . room service is horrendous , at best . with the solitary exception of the bar and lounge , restaurant food and service is awful . the worst views , i have experienced in a ritz . the best of the views available is the UNknown gas station right in front of the main entrance . gym is jam - packed , as it is open to the general public . most definitely the worst ritz , i have seen in the world .
stayed at the comfort inn on 71st street in the midst of brownstones . this place gave us a comfortable and safe feeling of being in nyc on the upper west side . great restaurants nearby , and handy subway stop . short walk to central park and lincoln center . the staff were friendly and extremely helpful . would stay there again . away from the hustle and bustle . almost felt like a native new yorker . rooms were small but were charming and adequate . you spend so little time in your room , so what does it matter ? it has a cute little breakfast room with free continental breakfast . enjoyed it very much . economical too . oxford , michigan
stayed for 5 nights on our first visit to new york the hotel " days inn " 215 94th street was a very long way out but plenty of taxis around and cheap . we walked down daily and taxied back at night . the hotel is being refitted and all though very tired it was clean and lovely fresh bedding made it a pleasure for sleeping in . coffee machine in room and a good tv . bath and shower ok , but only had hot water when heating was on usually in the mornings or after 8pm . very noisey central heating system but got used to it staff ok and pleasant . would recommend this hotel if you like a good walk .
for around $ 200 per night the milford has some positives , excellent location behind times square , broadway theatres & close to numerous subway lines and for a hotel with 28 floors the elevators are surprisingly efficient . it also has many drawbacks . in 2012 it is criminal to charge $ 15 per day for wireless internet as the majority of travellers now rely on the internet when travelling . the newly " renovated " rooms are not much more than a single coat of paint and a poster on the wall at the head of the bed & the rooms are tiny . a queen room at the milford is comparable in size to a single room at any budget UNknown hostel .
the parking charge of $ 32 . 00 a day was ridiculous , but this spot was nice for a one night stay . we had a suite which was comfortable , but it felt like a UNknown marriott and i was expecting something a little more unique and upscale . also the drinking glasses in our room were nasty and obviously had not been cleaned which made us leery of the overall , thorough cleanliness of the facility . also , the sink in our bathroom did not have a good drain . this was our first time staying in a w hotel . while we weren't totally disappointed with our stay , we did wonder how nice other hotels were in the area .
the room was a decent size , with a larger than usual bathroom everything was clean and fresh . the hotel has a small fitness room , and offers a free continental breakfast . although i had a piece of fruit and coffee , it's nice to not have to go out first thing in the morning . the hotel also has complimentary tea and coffee 24 / 7 . it's not the ritz or the four seasons , but it's a good value for the price . it was close to where we wanted to be for this trip . the area was not too noisy for sleeping . and when in nyc , you do not spend much time in your room anyhow .
i recently visited this hotel and was pleasantly surprised . we were upgraded to the best room in the hotel , which was newly renovated . although the hotel does not include breakfast , it does provide free coffee and sweets . as we were lucky enough to be upgraded , i don't know what the other rooms are like , and they may be smaller , etc . the beds were really comfortable . the was plenty of amenities in the bathroom , such as shampoos , conditioner etc . there was a hairdryer in the bathroom but it unfortunately it had seen better days . the staff were helpful and friendly . i thought this was a good hotel and would recommend it .
i felt this hotel exactly met our needs for this trip . it is a good choice for those with an eye on their pocketbook . the room did not have a hairdryer , which i have come to expect in hotel rooms , but other than that all expected amenities were present . free wireless internet was available , and very fast / hassle - free . this is something i see more often at hotels in this price range , than in higher priced hotels . there is no good reason for that . if you are not planning to spend a lot of time in the room , just need a place to crash at night , this is an excellent choice .
i'm a kimpton intouch member and love all of the perks . i love the kimpton vibe - trendy and cool . hotel allegro is in a great location for UNknown and the price is right for downtown chicago . my only complaint is the paper thin walls . top to bottom , side to side , the walls are really thin ! you can hear conversations and televisions , all at normal UNknown levels . thankfully kimpton guests are normal and courteous so a disastrous night was averted , but things could have been very different had we had noisier neighbors . also , for comparison purposes , i do prefer kimpton's hotel monaco chicago . it's really hard to beat monaco's window seats !
this was our third time staying here . we booked a times square view and we were given a great room on the front corner of the building . the rooms are spacious , clean , the beds are very comfortable and there is a nice sized flat screen tv to watch . the only thing missing would be a fridge which would be nice . the hotel is very close to UNknown square where tkts on the square is , plus the " red stairs " . the restaurant 1605 has a nice buffet breakfast and a good selection of pre theatre dinners for around 30 dollars . a total recommend enjoy . UNknown at the front desk was very helpful - a great employee
stayed 1 night with family on a recent shopping trip . the rooms were very nice ! stayed in the 1 bedroom with separate living room and kitchen area . very clean and neat and in a great location . after a long day of shopping , it's nice to be able to walk across the street and rest ! free breakfast buffet was tasty with hot foods and waffles . we had an incident where my mom had a really bad nose bleed during the night and the staff showed great concern and were able to get us some first aid supplies . they were all very courteous , especially UNknown . i would highly recommend this hotel and will definitely stay here again !
the location is great for a tourist . the hotel is in a renovated old building that gives it a certain interest and character . we stayed only one night . valet parking is expensive but there is an open public parking space adjacent which is cheaper if you're not going to be coming and going all the time . the room was very well appointed , clean , spacious and comfortable . the only staff we saw was the guy at the check in desk who was efficient and pleasant enough . i was impressed that he recognised my accent straight off . there was certainly no one around to help us with our piles of luggage either at check in or check out .
we spent 6 days as part of our honeymoon at the library hotel - and it was perfect . great hotel with a very relaxed feel , very pleasant staff who were always freindly and helpful to any requests . the rooftop bar is a lovely area , although suffers from being run UNknown from the hotel - so sometimes it did feel like residents were second rate citizens in there - as well as the drinks being very expensive . this didn't spoil our stay in the slightest as we enjoyed the rooftop terrace during the day , when the bar was shut , and escaped for the complimentary drinks and cheeses in the evenings . i would highly reccomend this hotel to anyone .
we stayed at the hotel chandler this past weekend , july 12th & 13th 2008 . from the time we arrived everything was better than expected . we received a very warm welcome from the front desk and even received an upgrade to a deluxe queen . the room furnishings were very nice and the bedding extra comfortable . the bathroom was surprisingly large and nicely outfitted . the staff was every bit as helpful as they could possibly be . we were on a tight schedule and they assisted with information about the theatre we were heading to . the weekend was extra special thanks to our experience at the hotel chandler . we will definitely be staying here again in the near future .
this small property provides the ultimate in comfort and quiet . located adjacent to the dupont circle and logan circle areas , there is convenient access to many of dc's attractions , restaurants , and shopping . the building is older , but this fact is by no means a detraction ; indeed , the UNknown make better use of the space by breaking the room into sections ( sleep , relax , work ) . i loved the separate vanity area next to the bathroom . i encountered a bit of UNknown with the bar staff , but the way in which the management remedied the situation demonstrated the attributes of first - rate customer service . i grant this hotel my highest rating .
a very clean and tidy hotel with friendly , accomodating staff . i stayed here for 4 days before leaving for a camping trip , then returned for the day and will be back again for a day before leaving the us . will definitely return here on my next trip . the room was bright and clean with an immaculate bathroom and good shower ; tv and wifi were bonuses although the proximity to union square and chinatown meant i wasn't in the room much ! an excellent location to set up base and explore the city and surrounds . room is serviced every day and front desk staff are full of local knowledge and super - friendly . thanks for a great stay !
booked as a wedding group block . wedding was to be at 4 : 30 , check - in to be at 3 : 00 . check - in wasn't ready by 3 : 00 . what a fiasco . staff seemed dis - interested , not helpful in any way . complimentary coffee non - existent . breakfast ( not included ) consisted of luke - warm eggs and soggy sausage . the rest of the breakfast bar was below standards of motel / hotels at half the price . the reception desk was manned by usually one person who always seemed to be on the phone answering complaints , seemingly ignoring the person in front of the desk . never again for me .
we arrived in the evening , after dark but had no trouble finding the place . the desk clerk was very friendly and helpful . the room was clean and nice but nothing outstanding . breakfast was good by hotel standards , there was quite a bit to choose from , UNknown apples and bananas , microwaveable sausage & biscuit , biscuits & gravy , waffles , yogurt , hard boiled eggs , cold cereal , pastry , etc . main problem for us , was the ice machine on my floor was not working , i had to go up 2 floors to get ice . i paid $ 40 / night through priceline for this $ 85 room , heck of a deal !
if you are looking for a hotel in washington dc , either for business or pleasure , this hotel is perfect . i have now stayed in this hotel twice , and both experiences have been very good . the hotel is about two blocks away from capital hill and union station , and about three blocks away from the mall . the hotel's rooms are spacious and provide excellent service . only downfall was their internet connection which in my opinion wasnt great . the hotel has a decent gym , however if you want to go for a run it is the perfect place for a run up the mall towards the white house and beyond towards arlington UNknown . overall very good .
not quite as nice as sofitel philly ( smaller rooms ) but still very very nice . restaurant and bar much better ! great beds ( but ask for an extra sheet - otherwise you are caught between roasting under the comforter or freezing without it ) . great marble bathrooms with separate tub and shower . everything UNknown with french elegance and taste . and very accommodating to requests , like all sofitels . that's why we have gradually transferred our loyalty from westin and starwood . if only they had more hotels in us ! rates vary with demand but occasionally great bargains . i always compare prices with the downtown westins , but this is worth a premium for quality and location .
hotel is run down and some of the amenities are non functional - e . g . , volume control on the tv remote . the non - smoking room reeked of deodorant to mask the smell of smoke from previous guests . the worst part was an air compressor which came on every three hours and ran for 45 min before it was quiet again . hard to sleep with all that noise . on the plus side the staff were generally friendly and the location is good for what i needed to do . the free shuttle to downtown was helpful but unreliable and i ended up taking taxis after having to wait over an hour and then no show from the shuttle .
i stayed here for a business trip that turned into a family vacation ( with hubby and 11 - year - old ) . we had room 315 , a suite with kitchenette ( stovetop , fridge , microwave , utensils ) , large dining / living combo with queen size sofabed , decent bath , large bedroom . amenities were good ( free wired internet in rooms , free wireless in meeting room ) , restaurant had limited menu , but food was reasonable and they had some good bottles of wine for reasonable price . location not the best , but quick walk to foggy bottom metro and 15 - 20 minute walk to georgetown . price good for dc at $ 209 .
we just stayed for three nights at the cornell , and could not have been at a better location in sf . the cornell is a very charming small hotel . the room was comfortable and the included breakfast was handy and adequate . the services were all provided by friendly staff . one evening we came back and requested coffee and dessert in the dining room , and were welcomed . the location , steps from the powell cable car , a couple blocks from china town and handy to all public transportation was great . it was our first stay in sf , and if we would return , it is a no brainer , the cornell is a great place to stay !
my wife and i stayed at the handlery for 3 nights and thoroughly enjoyed our visit . we'd been to the city about 5 years before but in a different hotel and were keen to come back . the original room we were offered was noisy ( a union protest across the street ) so the excellent desk staff found us another two to choose from and were very helpful as were all the others we dealt with . breakfast in the adjoining daily grill was excellent and the closeness of union square for shops & eating and the cable - car stop only yards away were most convenient . we found the handlery to be excellent and can happily recommend it to other travellers .
this hotel has fabulous service . everyone who worked here seemed to go the extra mile to make sure our stay was a good one . they exceeded our expectations . the grounds are romantic and full of flowers . also there are outdoor fireplaces everywhere . we booked the least expensive room and still it was very nice with well appointed bathroom and bedroom . we also ate dinner at the resort which was superb . the bar is very popular and has two fireplaces and inviting spaces . when they offer the wine tasting in the bar , do it . lots of fun and nice wine to boot . the photos of the property do not do it justice . just gorgeous .
this hotel is one of the few reasonably priced hotels in new york and it is in a great location . located on 10th ave and 42nd street , it is an easy walk to times square , to the port authority bus and subway , the hop - on hop - off buses and all the restaurants around hells kitchen . no , the hotel is not brand new , but the room was very clean and comfortable . our only complaint was the lack of tea / coffee facilities in the rooms , but the deli located just outside the hotel was a nice compensation . if you don't need 5 - stars , this is a good hotel in a great location .
sincerely when i booked the hotel and start reading the reviews i think the worst . but when i open the door of the room it was small , but for two it is perfect . the room and bathroom was super clean . the sheets and towels were changed every day . the train station is at one street walking . also they have a vending machine and ice machine at the basement . while employees were friendly and kind . they provide a place to leave your luggage after check out with out a cost . they also coordinate the transportation to the airport . for my and my wife was perfect . if you want some photos email to me UNknown . com
we've stayed at le parker meridien at least once a year for the past several years . now that we have a young child , we appreciate the hotel even more . the close proximity to museums , central park , and shopping make it easy for navigating the city without using much public transportation . even in the hot weather , we walked most of the weekend . the hotel provides small fridges , cribs , etc , which make traveling with a toddler easy breezy . sure , the rooms look a little tired after their early UNknown renovation , but it's still a great hotel in the heart of manhattan . we'll certainly be back since we stay on our spg points .
i stayed at the hollywood celebrity 17 / 9 - 22 / 9 . as a single female traveller it's always a risk choosing places to stay - but i couldn't have felt safer at this hotel . even returning to it late at night . its in a fantastic location , right at the starting point for tours , on top of a metro line for public transport - and beside the bus line to get down to santa monica etc . the room was lovely and big , and very clean ! again i can think of nothing to fault at this hotel - choose it for price , location & service . thanks for a great start to my trip in the usa
the manhattan club's location can't be beat . two blocks from central park , one from carnegie hall , and close to the moma . the online deals right now are fantastic . we booked a junior suite with kitchenette for $ 250 / night . rooms are clean and comfortable . bath and body works tolietries . free wifi . the only disappointment is that the living area of the suite is not actually separate from the bedroom . it's small for a jr suite , but the more important part is not having a door to separate the two rooms . thankfully this wasn't a big deal for us . valet parking is $ 28 ; standard for nyc . overall very pleased .
i stayed in the westin for two nights on a recent rip to ca . overall it was a fairly standard hotel . the rooms were a little dated in their decoration , although the beds were comfortable . service from the front desk was mixed , at one point my mum was left waiting for around 15 minutes before being seen by someone . the restaurant is very overpriced and the quality was not good . service was average but the carrot cake was delicious ! the hotel was quite noisy with air traffic , although not unbearable . while the initial impression of a lobby with lots of marble and shiny brass may be impressive , i wasn't particularly taken with this hotel .
having read the reviews , we were looking forward to our 3 night stay . the rooms are very spacious and the furniture tv etc are of a good standard . however the corridors are hot and smelly as are the lifts ( which involve UNknown waiting times ) . we had to ask to change our first allocated room due to smell and very poor bathroom ( broken toilet seat and not clean ) . our second room was better but the bathroom was very small and in need of updating . the paintwork in all areas was chipped and corners were thick with dust . bedroom doors were also chipped which made them look like someone had tried to break into the room !
stayed for 3 nights while doing some xmas shopping and cannot understand the reason for such a low tripadvisor rating ( UNknown ) . i was concerned after reading the reports but to be honest we couldnt ask for more . the room was bright , clean and well decorated and the location excellent . whenever we needed staff assistance they were good . i think some people rely too much on hotel assistance and invariably are let down , try to be a little independent and you wont have to complain about the staff as much . we usually stay in fitzpatricks but this was very comparable at half the price . will certainly stay again once the credit card bill is paid off !
my husband and i stayed 3 nights from july into august 2010 . the hotel is charming . a beautiful lobby and an attentive staff . we asked for a fridge for our room , but there was already one in our room . we ate a buffet brunch in the hotel on sunday and it was delicious ! we also ordered room service another morning which was delicious , but very expensive . national geographic is a block away and a must see . the old town trolley tour stops right in front of the hotel which we found out on our 2nd day . dc is a wonderful city and the mayflower renaissance a wonderful hotel . i'd go back in a heartbeat !
my boyfriend and i just took a trip to nyc . we were looking for something that wouldn't break the bank or feel like a dive . after reading up on the apollo inn we decided too book with it . $ 70 includes tax each night . we thought this was a great stay , we are two young travelers . the rooms were clean with private bathrooms . the place used to be apartments and was turned into hotels . nothing elegant , and we thought the idea that it was in harlem enhanced our stay . we enjoyed the hotel , and it was very close to the subway . recommended for couples that are looking for a cheap and decent stay .
the staff at this hotel were very cordial , polite , and helpful whenever we needed anything . our pack n play was delivered promptly to our room . this was the only hotel out of our entire trip that had a room big enough to have the stroller and still have 2 options for where to comfortably put the pack n play . having refrigerators in each room was a plus . the pool was a bit dirty with tree / landscaping debris , but really the rooms were spacious , clean , and the bed was very comfortable . the pool itself was huge , especially if you like to do laps . plenty of towels at the pool and in the room .
we booked the sheraton's " park and fly " package . with sunday arrival it was only $ 169 plus taxes for a room , and 7 days of valet , covered parking ! i wasn't expecting a lot but the hotel was fine . quiet rooms , comfy beds and the starbucks in the lobby was a bonus . the rooms need some updating but are not horrible . the bar downstairs is surprisingly hip with a good vibe , menu and food . there is also a branch of " shula's " a higher end steakhouse . overall i would say an excellent choice for one night , but no longer . next time we depart early from lax we shall stay here .
i decided to go to dc on a whim and booked this through a last minute travel package . the location of this hotel is perfect for sight seeing , there are a zillion wonderful resturants in the area ( only problem there was which one to go to - and none were cheap ! ) , starbucks around the corner , the wine hour in the evening in the lobby was great - i met some truely nice folks there . the room was beautiful - i loved the ceilings . the front desk staff was not always the nicest - but everyone else was great . as a single women traveling alone . i felt safe , comfortable , and at home here .
stayed at the doubletree for a conference the week of november 16 . the location is outside of the city , but there is a mall across the street , an outback , a sizzler , and a mcdonalds very close by . the outback there is great ! the restaurant at the hotel , nw landing , was ok , not great . the breakfast buffett was decent , the lunch buffett varied , and the dinners were decent . we were on the top floor ( 8th ) and the room was adequate . the people were friendly , except for one bartender who seemed to have a chip on his shoulder . the chocolate chip cookies at check - in were great !
i loved this hotel for the simple fact that it had a fantastic gym - or gyms . i was at a convention for work and i work with a lot of people who care about their health and regularly work out , and i never found myself waiting to use a machine , weights , etc . also , the rooms are very nice and quiet and the service from the staff was great . i would definitely stay here again . the only thing that isn't great is the location . it's about a 30 - 40 min ride to downtown seattle , but then again , we were there for work , not to enjoy the city . nice stay either way .
location near all the shops and nightlife is a plus . we were also given a nice room way up top so we were able to see the boston skyline . this is a large hotel so it was busy while we were here this summer . since they have so many rooms , everyone's experiences will be a little different but we were lucky to be given one of the nicer rooms with a nice view . the beds were comfortable , the room spacious , and bath was clean - all that we need . the metro is also convenient in the shopping areas nearby . everything is within walking distance so we didn't even need a car . overall a great stay .
check in and out went smooth , but that's about all . no water pressure and drains that don't . wi - fi connection was between 1 - 3 bars on the 4th floor . resulted in very poor speeds and one night no connection at all . reported to front desk and they gave me a 1 - 800 number to call . reported a problem with the shower and it took two days to fix . the street noise was bad . the emergency vehicle sirens kept you awake most of the night and the mass transit noise ensured you did not need an alarm clock in the morning . from a hotel charging $ 300 plus per night , we expected better .
according to the " manager " it is starwood hotel policy to have sports or news playing on their big screen tv . everyone in the bar wanted to watch the season premier of " the amazing race " and everyone was denied . i thought the goal of hospitality services was to make the guest feel welcomed and appreciated . not at this bar ! i even had a penny thrown at my feet , intentionally , without due cause , from the bar manager ! because other patrons at the bar kept revisiting how rude it was to not honor the request of patrons soliciting this particular bar . don't recommend at all . no one here smiles except for the desk clerks .
we absolutely loved our stay at this hotel . we stayed the night prior to our 0600 flight home . cisco , the van driver , gave us incredible service , even offering to follow us to the rental car company , in addition to showing us where the nearest gas station was prior to the rental car return ! we have never had such outstanding service from a hotel courtesy van driver ! thanks cisco ! john , the manager , is a phenomenal human being . we saw him everywhere . he practices UNknown , management by walking around . it shows . he is super friendly , cordial , and very knowledgable . thanks for a great visit . we'll return soon !
this was our first trip to seattle . we decided to stay outside the city because we had friends who lived nearby in kent and we wanted to make it convenient for them . good choice ! the hotel is right next to a large shopping center and there were numerous restaurants within walking distance . doubletree UNknown to be an ideal central location . the city proper was 20 minutes away and we could also take a short trip south to tacoma and UNknown . as for our room , it was huge . it was also very clean and quiet . aside for th front desk employees who weren't very friendly , we had no complaints . we would definitely stay there again .
this is now the hyatt place , dallas park central . fantastic rooms with a 42 " plasma television , and brand new furniture and amenities . felt like we were staying in a much more expensive boutique hotel . brand new super comfortable bed , wet bar , refrigerator , and fold out sofa . located almost next to the high five interchange at 75 - north and 635 , there was a bit of traffic noise , but nothing that keep us awake . the staff was friendly and attentive , and especially kim who among her other duties , drives the courtesy van to any location within 5 - 10 miles . definitely a find in a sea of bad choices in dallas
when i initially booked this hotel , the rate was $ 349 / night but right before we left for chicago , the rate dropped to $ 189 / night . i think below $ 200 / night is a fair price for this hotel . the location is fantastic , one block off of michigan avenue and walking distance from fabulous hotels . the noise level at night is pretty loud and walls are very thin . i could hear everything people were saying in the next room . ordered room service one day and it was expensive , especially considering the food you can get right down the street . overall good experience , however , i prefer the renaissance on the river .
our family had a delightful three - day stay at the pacific terrace last week ( july 2012 ) . the hotel is very well kept , and ideally located if beaches are your thing - minutes from la jolla and downtown sd . check - in was easy , and our room was exactly what we had reserved . had a partial ocean view by the pool . staff was super friendly , efficient , and offered excellent tips on restaurants and whereabouts in downtown . we left the car at the hotel , and leisurely walked around town . we all thought the pt deserved a top rating , and would definitely like to come back some day . well done pacific terrace !
ok , let me start by saying i am leaving this before i have stayed here . myself and two of my friends are staying here for a ladies weekend for my friends 50th birthday in two weeks . i have been emailing patrick kennedy about some things to make my friends birthday weekend special to her . he has went out of his way as of now to help me in anyway possible . he offered wine and cupcakes at his expense when i asked him for a room with a great view . i am so thrilled with the customer service . i am sure we will have an awesome weekend . i am so looking forward to this quick trip to chicago .
this was the first trip to nyc for my wife and i . we arrived at the hotel around 11 : 30 , and our room was ready for us to check in . we were greeted with a friendly staff , and the room was very nice . ( bigger than we expected . ) the location was great , and there is just about anything a traveler would need within 2 or 3 blocks . coming from the south , we sort of had our UNknown about what to expect from our experience in the big apple . to put it bluntly , we can't wait to go back ! and , we would stay at this hotel ! wayne wilson arlington , texas
room was great and quiet - no hall noise ! valets are fast . a shuttle service is offered to nearby spots but you can take a cab for about 5 bucks anywhere in downtown . bars / restaurants / minute maid park / UNknown convention all within walking distance . cafe right downstairs . i love the rooftop pool - it's a little small but it's byob and the view is awesome ! this is the only hotel nearby with an outdoor pool ! valet is $ 28 per night but if you stay on a weekend , don't drive a nice car , & hide your belongings , there are parking lots within a couple of blocks for around $ 7 / day !
we stayed at this hotel for a weekend of times square theatre and dining . good location , nice building . the rooms were new but had a retro / mod theme like from the 70's  no complaints but no " wow " either . i guess we were hoping for something that seemed more special / cozy / luxurious the price was very high - even using a free night coupon from the intercontinental ambassador program , it ended up being just as expensive as the westin's normal rates . next time we'll go back to the westin ( instead of the open parking garage on 44th , we found a garage on 43rd that was 1 / 3 less and was underground )
my husband and i stayed here on our way back from picking up our new car in south carolina . bmw driving school a great experience . we only spent one night but had a nice experience . including having a running map of an old area of charlotte to run around in that was really cool . we did have dinner at the restaurant that is part of the hotel that was very nice . our room was comfortable . the only comment that i would have is that the business center is very small and you have to pay for internet , which at this class of hotel i think is ridiculous . most hotels these days do provide this free of charge .
this was my second stay at the westin in under 2 years . let me say that this trip was so much better than the last . management went above and beyond to ensure that my stay was fantastic . i would encourage those who stay at the westin and experience problems to contact the management as soon as possible to correct anything that goes wrong . it also seems that the hotel's customer service was superb this time around . i can truly say that this hotel is as fabulous as it's reputation , in a great location - transportation , fine restaurants , local in / expensive eateries , attractions , and shopping are all within 1 - 5 blocks of this hotel .
this was our third trip to the westin ny . chef frank and his team have been incredibly accomodating making kid - friendly , gourmet meals that are safe for my boys who have extensive life - threatening food allergies . he prepared daily menus for the boys and was even willing to pack picnic lunches to allow us to tour the city . this has allowed us to travel worry - free to nyc . the rooms are clean , as well - which have been great as we have environmental allergies too . although there were less expensive options available - keeping our kids safe is huge and chef frank and his team took ( and take ) such good care of us .
we always stay at a holiday inn property and always have great results . however other than location , i was very disappointed in this hotel . we could not get our room cleaned . we would call and request and be told 30 min . we'd leave for hours and come back to a dirty room . this happened more than once in our 3 night stay . also , i paid $ 25 per day for car valet service and when i got my car back it was covered in bird poop . it was almost comical but i was too mad to laugh . i did love our bed and the room was very nice but the service was lacking big time !
we travelled to san fran last minute and booked into the opal . it was alright , location was really good and easy to get everywhere . the hotel itself is really very old and needs some attention , it even smells old . the room was clean but dated , no fridge in the room and very basic amenities . there is no room service , but a diner next door which the front desk staff reccommended that we avoid . it is also really noisy , we could hear the elevator from our room which was around the corner . breakfast was non existent . a muffin and some bad coffee . to be honest i guess i expected more for my money .
we stayed here for 2 nights during the fells point fun festival and it was perfect . during checkin , the staff were very friendly and helpful . upon going up to our room , we came down to ask if there was a bigger room to match the 2nd room we had reserved and the staff were very kind and quick in seeing what they could do . we then decided not to take the new room they suggested and without hesitation they UNknown us back . very plesant to work with . this is an annual trip to the area and i will definitely stay here again in the future . the shops , resturants around the area make it the perfect location !
i have stayed at this hotel since they have opened . what a great product . i will not be returning to this property , excuses are just that . stop making excuses and fix it . all i would like is to receive the services i paid for . to build UNknown the general manager each time you talk to him goes into a long discuss about his previous jobs to build some validation . holiday inn hasn't been apart of holiday inn worldwide for years now . it is apart of ihg , that is pathetic when general manager is UNknown about the brand he is working for . after this meeting i had there this week , i will not return back .
it was a great experience from the minute we checked in to when we checked out a week later . we were greeted UNknown upon arriving to the hotel . the hotel staff was very friendly , kind and very helpful . the room was spotless , comfortable and quiet . the lobby was crazy with lots of students on tour which was fun to see so many people having a great time , but once you got to your room you would think you were the only one there . everything is within walking distance and if not the subway is very close . it was worth everything we spent . i will return if i am lucky enough to visit new york again .
i called to make a reservation for a get - away weekend , just to relax from work , and i invited some friends as well . when i made the phone call i was so undecided , but victor was very pleasant , and patient . i know this is a busy season . i deal with customers all the time , so i know how they just need you to be there , and he was there for me . by the end of our conversation he was accomidating , i wasn't confused , and i was all smiles . mind you this hotel was not my 1st choice , but with just that initial phone call it will be now . thanks UNknown
i stayed for 10 nights - it was prepaid so the front desk will not refund . property stolen from room - on the only day in 10 that a maid came to change the sheets - i mean the rooms are never serviced , how bad is that ! you have to get towels and soap from reception . the lifts break down often . while the location is great - spare a little more $ and get something else close by - i would have doen this if i had not pre paid - you have been warned ! i suspect the so called good reviews on here about the carter are UNknown reviews by the hotel , it really is that bad .
i was at a four day conference and it was the best all around experience i have had at a large resort . the rooms are we'll appointed and comfortable . the bed was fantastic with the pillows and comforters . the separate glass corner shower was luxurious and the bathroom very spacious . the food was outstanding . i wish i could take home jars of the salsa from high velocity . the pool was nice and relaxing although the poolside service was very slow . overall it was a very relaxing , enjoyable stay . i did not try the spa but did enjoy the fitness center . my only recommendation is they get smaller diameter free weights since they were very cumbersome .
my husband and i stayed during the memorial holiday weekend , something that two australians knew nothing about heading home from 3 months working in england via the us . it was an exciting time to be in a lovely hotel just a stone's throw from times square . we were pleasantly surprised by the size and comfort of our room . it was such a quiet relaxing haven after a big day of sightseeing . the only gripe we had was our hot water ran out in the shower each of the 3 nights we stayed . we called for help and it was fixed . also , one would expect free wi - fi in any hotel nowadays , especially a luxury one !
hotel is right off times square as advertised , and a hip feel in the lobby . staff was very nice . beyond that , the room was extremely small even by new york standards , 10 feet by 10 feet at best . shower was industrial and at least two electrical outlets didn't work . definitely a 3 star hotel as listed here , i bought on hotwire where it's listed as four star so my expectations were a bit too high coming in ( hotwire consistently UNknown hotels' star levels , based on this and previous experiences ) . overall a decent place to stay if you're 1 or maybe 2 people and just looking for a place to crash for the night .
stayed a night while visiting family in austin . i prefer marriott branded hotels and this was the cheapest in austin on the night we stayed . got in late and left early , so didn't experience much of the hotel beyond the room . check - in was the fastest i've ever had and the front desk was quite pleasant . room was nice and recently renovated it looked like . bed wasn't the most comfortable i've experienced ; it worked for the night but i've had better nights sleep . room was pretty quiet - i was expecting much more noise since we were directly off of ih - 35 . location was pretty boring with not much directly around at least walking distance . all in all , a nice quiet bed for the night near ( but not in ) austin's excitement .
my sister , nieces , and i stayed one night at the holiday inn inner harbor in july and were impressed by how convenient it was to inner harbor and all its attractions . pros : it was just a short walk down lombard and pratt streets and we felt safe the whole time we were there . the free charm city UNknown orange line goes right past the front door - another convenience . the staff were very helpful , and we had a great waiter for breakfast . cons : parking is expensive at $ 25 , but you'll pay that to any hotel that close to inner harbor . breakfast was not included in the room cost . the a / c startled us out of our sleep several times during the night when it kicked on , but it was very efficient .
very nice smaller hotel with free parking in a city where $ 33 to $ 48 per day is the norm . it seems like our room had just been renovated and was quite nice and quiet ( on the opposite side from the nightclub ) . it was called a suite UNknown and had a bedroom with a queen , and two double / queen beds in the big room ; tv's in both rooms . we reserved a fridge ahead which was helpful . parking was tight , but the management worked it out so we would have a space . the location is incredible , just a few blocks walk to fisherman's wharf and walking distance to chinatown , alcatraz ferry , lombard street ( crooked street ) and right off the cable car line . very happy with this very comfy room .
the hotel tried to charge me a 9 . 95 / day destination fee when i checked in . i explained that since i used priceline , my reservation was paid in full . after a 45 minute argument , they clerk informed me that he would waive the fee for me as a 1 time courtesy . 2 weeks later i see the fee show up on my credit card statement ! calling the hotel resulted in claims that they'd never waive the fee and i must be lying . i'm filing a dispute with my credit card company . this hotel matched a 3 star bid on priceline in the fells point area . i strongly recommend that you do not use priceline in this area as you may get this hotel , and who knows what they'll try and tack on your bill !
while the neighborhood of the hotel is lackluster , this is a very good choice for travelers who seek clean comfortable beds for under $ 100 . i have no complaints at all regarding this hotel ; however , i can not comment on the restaurant or other site amenities . tourists vacationing in baltimore may UNknown look for accommodations near the inner harbor or fells point . however , any cost conscious traveler needing to stay in this part of baltimore should find this hotel very acceptable . the bars and restaurants of the canton neighborhood a just a few minutes to the west along UNknown street . my 11th floor room had good water pressure , adequate hot water , good climate control , and a comfortable bed . free wireless wi - fi ; tv was small ( not a flat screen ) .
everything was great until we arrived into the " west " restaurant for breakfast friday at 10 : UNknown and were treated like we were totally inconveniencing the staff by asking for food . admittedly , we were told ( and didnt realize ) they were closing down at 10 : 30am . but were were given cold coffee , told the cook was on a break , reminded that while they had potatoes in the kitchen , we couldnt get any with breakfast , and a host of other reminders that we really werent welcome since we came in late . message here is - make sure you arrive into the restaurant for service well within their service hours . or else ! other than this and the fact the hotel room UNknown are to loud . i really like the hotel . great location !
i've stayed at many hotels in new york and this has to be the best so far . given the $ 275 price through quikbook and the size and quality of the room this would be the first hotel i would look to rebook again when i come back to new york . overall , attention to detail , the quality of finishings , friendliness of staff , bathroom accessories ( though what is it with american towels . they are almost never large , soft or fluffy ) and a lovely view over a small park made this a great stay . the location is not so seedy as people make out and it's a quick walk to soho and close to other downtown hotspots . there's even a wholefoods a block away and check out the small restaurants in and around nearby bond st .
my husband and i booked a standard ( queen - bed ) room and after checking in found out that the manager had " upgraded " us to a room with two double beds . we complained about how the smaller beds were not an " upgrade " , so the staff attempted to switch us to a second - floor room with a king bed , but it was way too loud ( we could hear shouted conversations between pedestrians outside ) and the air conditioner sounded like a freight train . the second night we were moved to a suite , which was nicer , except for the fact that the toilet ran very loudly for at least 10 minutes each time you flushed . also , elevator is slow ! this place is pricey , and in my opinion , not worth it .
i chose this hotel with a lot of trepidation after reading the reviews but the athletes for the event i was attending were staying there and i wanted to believe that the reviews were wrong . the staff was wonderful . UNknown at the front desk was the best . so friendly and welcoming . she remembered me the next day and helped me with directions . but my room was another story . a cell phone placed on the table between the beds stuck because of some sticky substance on it . the desk area was also very sticky . the comment card placed there by the hotel was fully UNknown to the desk in some kind of sticky substance . the next day , after housekeeping was done , the sticky substances were still there . nasty ! the room simply was not clean .
this is a fantastic hotel . we were upgraded to a king deluxe on check - in and weren't disappointed . the room was big , immaculately clean , the bathroom was big and bright , the bed was big and comfortable , free wifi was available ( just join the loyalty programme and its free in all kimpton hotels ) and there was a complimentary continental breakfast , along with UNknown tea and coffee in the lobby . the wine reception was just starting when we checked in so i sampled the sangria which was lovely . the hotel is in dupont circle which has lots of restaurants but if you're in washington as a tourist , you will need to take a cab to the national mall etc . if its shopping you're after however , georgetown is only a 10 minute stroll away .
my wife and i stayed at the pier 5 this past weekend . from the moment we arrived the staff went out of their way to make sure that our stay was a pleasant one . we arrived early before our room was ready and they held our luggage for us and even called us when our room was ready . our room was upgraded to the third floor overlooking the harbor . we were given many recommendations for fun things to do and places to eat lunch and dinner . they provided complimentary shuttle service to fells point where we had a fabulous dinner at UNknown ( tapas ) . the hotel is right on the harbor so it is easy to walk to eating and shopping places . we will be staying there again the next time our travel plans take us to baltimore .
if you are looking for three - star plus quality at a two - star price , this is the hotel for you ! we appreciated the clean , friendly , atmosphere , the nice pool for the kids with a great lifeguard , and the adequate continental breakfast ( hard to find in baltimore ) . we especially appreciated the overall cost which is much lower than many other hotels . this one has queen sized beds , and no cots like many of the pricier hotels . it also offers a lower parking fee and a shuttle to many of the places that you would want / need to go . it is within walking distance of the stadiums . we thoroughly enjoyed our visit ( two families with kids ) , and we plan to use this hotel for many visits to come .
we stayed here for 4 nights in may . the hotel is an amazing location with fabulous views over the city . we stayed in the newer part of the hotel in a lovely room , spotlessly clean , very comfortable large bed , large well stocked bathroom and with the most amazing views out towards the bay with alcatraz in the back ground . a very busy hotel with lots of conferences taking place and delegates milling around . we ate one night in the UNknown restaurant which was average for the price we paid but nothing special . the only complaint i have about the hotel would be the staff , especially in the bar , who appeared totally disinterested in the customers even when we sat at the bar the bar tenders did not enter into conversation with us apart from taking our order
my friends and i stayed here in february as we were going to a concert in the area , you really can't beat the prices especially considering the location ! the staff was extremely nice and definitely went out of their way to make us feel at home ! my friends and i planned another trip for april and without a doubt we booked a room at the same hotel because we loved our first visit ! as we walked in to check - in we were greeted with smiling faces and the best part was once of the staff members , cruz , recognized us ! they even remembered our name , talk about great customer service ! i travel to chicago for work and play and because we have been treated so well , i plan on staying here everytime ! great job cruz !
we only had 2 nights in san diego and just loved the hotel ! we arrived late and starving and the front desk agent ( leslie ) recommended a cool diner down the street ( UNknown 24 ) - it was exactly what we needed and wanted ! just perfect . then , we went to our room - on the 15th floor - and felt like pure royalty ! the room was perfect - with a great view ! the staff was so helpful and genuinely nice and fun to joke around with too ! sometimes , when an old building is refurbished into a hotel , it doesn't always work , but this is spectacular ! it's just beautiful and it a fantastic location . seriously , the hotel and the staff were just amazing and truly added to our visit to san diego .
we always stay at holiday inns / crown plazas but for this trip we upgraded to the intercontinental . we didn't get off to a great start due to the snotty check in staff but the rest of the staff made up for that over the rest of the trip . the doormen were great , spirited our luggage to our room , gave great insider info on the best places to eat and escorted everyone to and from their taxis with umbrellas and a smile . the bar staff were extremely courteous and attentive . we did spend quite a bit of time in the bar since it snowed most of the time during our visit . the room and bathroom were a bit small but then it is new york ! the bed was very comfy and i never noticed any noise ! enjoy !
what a nightmare ! first they didn't book the room i asked for . they lead me to believe that broadband was readily available but it's really only UNknown in the rooms that twice what they quoted me , $ 139 a night ! then , even tho i had put my credit card on file , they some how lost it so that i couldn't order room amenities and had to go downstairs at 10pm . the only difference in the two rooms were broadband access , a soap dish , and doors on the closet ! then they had the nerve to charge me for local calls ! of which i made , perhaps a dozen and that's generous , for which they charged me $ 19 . 60 . this is not a 3 star hotel , it's a rip off flop house .
my husband and i stayed here in september and the hotel was terrible , we stayed in a room that we were told had been recently re - UNknown , which i am pretty sure it hadnt been . the bedding looked like it hadnt been washed and i felt i wanted to give the room a good dust and the floor a good mop ! on the up side the location was great and as you are out and about during the day it really is only somewhere to sleep , so if you can put up with a lot of dust etc then this might suite you , but it certainly wasnt for us . we stayed in better UNknown when we travelled australia some 10 years ago ! we would definitely return to new york but would give this hotel a huge miss .
we stayed here when we tacked a boston weekend onto a weeklong business trip nearby . got a terrific rate and free parking after joining the kimpton's free intouch program . the room was not huge , but anyone who wants a big room should be in a cookie - cutter chain in the suburbs . the room and bath were spotless , something worth noting in a hotel that accepts pets . super comfy bed . joe in the ruby lounge mixes a great manhattan and became our instant buddy after a fellow patron UNknown our choice of beverage . my only qualm about the location was its proximity to the garden ; a UNknown expo that weekend seemed to generate late night activity on the street outside our seventh - floor room . we just piled up the squishy feather pillows and rolled over .
the problems started at checkin . 3pm UNknown . room not ready . when we were able to check in , room type requested was not granted . the reservation was made several months prior with a note to contact me if room could not be granted . upon checking into room , bathmat frayed and never changed during the 4 night stay . hairs were found in tub and all over the bathroom . disgusting . never removed after several UNknown . i travel alot and don't tend to be very picky , but that is just a problem . 5am wakeup call was not registered on day of checkout . had i not been vigilant , i would have missed my flight back to the east coast . think twice when making your reservations here . you are potentially in for a let down .
i am always excited to head back to the w hotel on lexington ! this hotel knows how to treat their guests and i always feel like i am at home when i am here ! edna always provides her guests with great service and makes your stay feel special she is an asset to this property ! gloria is so sweet you should be honoured to have such fab employees ! alberto was a new agent that i just met but was always willing and ready to help ! sam the manager is so friendly and helpful ! joe and freddy again were excellent they remembered me from my last stay ! staff alone makes this hotel one of my fave in nyc . w nyc you should be very proud of your facilities and your staff ! can't wait for my next stay here !
i called the hotel as a friend was staying their to celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary . when i asked cathy at UNknown desk if she knew , she said i just checked them in and they didnt say a word . with that the manager , heaven , joined the call and asked how they might help . my friend is a loyal hilton member and as i requested to purchase a room amenity , heaven , the hotel manager said that she would add to my basket a UNknown bottle of champagne for the special occassion ! wonderful and thoughtful service . heaven was like having a friend helping me with a friend . thank you to the front desk and to heaven ! p . s . i wasn't even staying at the hotel . but will next time i am in ny !
convenient location within walking distance of most cultural , historical , and family oriented attractions including rittenhouse square , antique row and the academy of natural sciences . adjacent to liberty place with over 70 unique boutiques and restaurants and easily accessible to the convention center , 30th street train station , and major universities . as a solo , woman traveler i felt safe . great restaurant / bar in hotel with superior service and comfortable ambiance . room was small but for a single business traveler it's perfect . gym was great for quick cardio and a little weight lifting in the a . m . filtered water dispenser on each floor . lounge with coffee and tea , comfortable couches , local magazines / tourist info . everything clean from the room to the lobby to the restaurant bathroom . incredible value too !
my business partner and i just returned from san francisco and i am very picky about the hotels that i stay in , so i always check out the reviews on this website . queen anne was the only hotel within our price range that had great reviews from all of the critics . and i have to agree with everyone , it was a clean hotel with good breakfast options and for a good price . it was close enough to the city where we could take a short drive or catch the bus but yet it was far enough away from all of the noise associated with a big town . and we were able to find street parking every night and not have to worry about paying big dollars for parking . i will definitely stay here again if i'm in san fran .
we stayed one night at the end of a vacation to be close to the airport for our flight home the next morning . the location was fantastic - away from the crowded downtown area and very near the airport . price is always a major factor with us , and we were very pleased with the rate we got on the room . around $ 80 . the rooms were large and clean and the pool was great for the family . the continental breakfast was a little better than most - well - stocked with cereal , fruit , yogurt , muffins , bagels , juice , coffee , etc , along with a waffle iron . there are several good restaurants within walking distance . we ate at ruby tuesday's . the salad bar was delicious ! we would definitely stay here again .
i was in denver to attend a trade show at the convention center . unless you slept on the convention center floor , you cannot get any closer than this hyatt regency . the service was excellent and my room was clean and spacious . the bed was quite comfortable too . the hotel is conveniently located within walking distance to the 16th street mall ( which by the way has a very nice tj maxx ! ) . if i was forced to complain about something it would be the room service menu . while the food was good , the menu was limited and rather lackluster . for airport travelers i would recommend the super shuttle . for $ 40 you can purchase a round trip airport to hotel fare with pick up and delivery every 15 mins . super shuttle , super convenient .
we stayed three nights here booked off hotwire for $ 75 / night . the location is great , two blocks from the UNknown line cable car , and close to market street , and union square . the amenities at the hotel were good , and checkin was quick . free internet and printing in the lobby was great , and the rooftop area was very nice . the actual room was a bit 'cheap' . no safe , and only queen beds available . some of the hotel staff are not very good with english , and we often had difficulty UNknown our needs . we requested a non - down duvet , and the hotel was unable to provide . overall for a cheap rate it was fine , but next time i would spend a bit more to get a bit more .
we stayed for three nights in march . the people there were very friendly . i asked for a king size bed on the booking form and got the biggest bed i have ever seen in my life ! our room faced into the courtyard and was very quiet . the location is great . feels very safe and is just a few blocks from the cable car and some nice cafes and restaurants . apart from our obligatory tourist ride on the cable car we walked nearly everywhere - down to the wharf ( where we hired bikes to go to golden gate bridge ) , north beach , chinatown , telegraph hill , union square . the staff were happy to advise us where not to walk through , and the hills were a good work out ! i'd definitely recommend booking this motel .
my daughter and i have just returned from our first stay in new york , staying at the wolcott . we were very impressed with this hotel . when you first walk through the door , it has got a wonderful lobby which has been recently restored . our room which was at the front of the hotel 10 floors up was spacious and very clean and had a wonderful of the empire state building . it was pretty cold outside but the wolcott hotel was lovely and warm . in the morning there were UNknown home made muffins , tea and coffee for guests to enjoy which was a bonus . in all , it was a lovely hotel , had everything we could have wished for and was excellent value for money and convenient for all the sites . would definately recommend this hotel .
very nice hotel , great rooms with superior beds and accomodations all worthless when you have to keep waking up and move a leg or an arm to get the airconditioner to start blowing cool air again . they have a nice pool and spa and the location is good , close to shopping and near china town . the trolley is just down the street . service is spotty , this time the service was good but have had long waits many times for someone to come to the business desk and give us the papers to fill out . i would recommend this hotel if you don't mind the price and like cozy warm rooms . if you like it cool to sleep , stay away . even the great location isn't worth it . if you like this please mark helpful . thanks UNknown
i called a week in advance to get two double beds , and when i arrived the clerk said it wasn't noted in the computer . my adult son and i were given the handicap room : no chair or couch , just a desk and desk chair . the room was tiny and smelled of mildew . a request for a different room was refused . the tv was tiny and the hotel has few amenities . no pool . no spa . self parking cost $ 20 per night . i think the poor room was related to me obtaining the reservation through hotwire . typically , once the clerk sees the $ 74 hotwire rate , he gives me the worst room in the house . i find this common whenever i book through hotwire . the hotel usually UNknown the low price .
my sister - in - law and i stayed here for 3 nights while we were in town visiting family . the location is great - it's within walking distance to times square & the empire state building . we walked back to the hotel at night & felt completely safe with the neighborhood . the room is a bit tiny , but i think that's UNknown for nyc . the beds were a little uncomfortable , but honestly we were so tired from walking around all day that we still slept just fine . : ) the staff was very friendly . we had no issues with the shared bathrooms at all - we never had to wait for one to be open & they were very clean . overall , it was a great value for the location & i would stay there again !
the oxford hotel is the oldest hotel in denver . i stayed there in 2009 as part of a train trip that required an overnight in denver . the oxford was built as a railway hotel and stands almost directly across the street from denver's union station . given that the station is on the edge of the downtown , the oxford is also very convenient to downtown denver . i like old hotels , especially those that are well maintained . the oxford is just such a property . i had a lovely suite with a magnificent bathroom ( shower only no bath ) that was furnished with antiques for a very reasonable ( non - prepaid ) rate of $ 220 plus tax . there are a couple of nice restaurants and bars in the hotel and several more just outside the hotel's door .
my husband and i travel a fair amount and enjoy staying in a nice hotel . our personal opinion was that the ritz battery park was fair . the rooms were small but very clean . however , the shower was horrible - like you were being hosed down from a fire UNknown . there wasn't any way of adjusting the pressure and no way of turning the shower nozzle . we were staying there with a group of friends and they experienced the same problem on the fourth floor . the food prices were off the charts ( $ 40 for 2 bowls of oatmeal and coffee - $ 70 for 2 english muffins , coffee and juice . we live locally and are very aware of ny city prices and know there are much nicer sections and hotels for the price we were paying .
i really enjoyed staying at the w , which has a unique , modern style . loved the room decor , including the chalk board and window seat : ) employees were very friendly . loved the free ride with acura - worth listening to the commercial . i used this service twice . close enough to walk to the convention center ( 10 - 15 min ) and little italy ( 5 - 10 min . ) . not many dining choices in the immediate neighborhood . the downside : no coffee pot in the room ! so , i had to go out for my morning caffeine . also , the water pressure in the shower was weak ( but a very nice bathroom ) . i got a great deal on the internet and it was well worth it , and then some !
i had a great stay in the westin . the hotel bar is in a central location right by reception and is easy for meeting collegues . the rooms are standard , and the bed is worthy of praise as it was large and comfy . the shower was 2 headed and really woke me up in the morning ! scenes from " true lies " and " in the line of fire " were filmed here and the elevators are instantly recognizable for fans of those films . there is a revolving restaurant and cocktail bar on the top floors which is well worth a visit , particularly if you like steak with great city views ! if you are in downtown la for a conference then this hotel is a 5 minute cab ride or 20 - 25 minute walk from the conference center .
we had an awful experience here . the front desk checked us in under a different person's name and then sent us to the wrong room . we got a call at about 9 : 00 in the evening when the real person showed up , yet i still had to make two trips to the front desk to make sure that i was not being charged for the other person's room - which had originally happened . the hotel is in disarray with dirty carpets and exposed wiring in the hallways . i would not recommend this place to anyone . i can say that after my initial email complaint to doubletree , i was refunded one night's stay for my troubles , but all in all , i would not recommend this place again , partly due to the awful condition of the facility .
stayed here for 2 nights as part of a west coast tour with my partner . with the hotel being on the wharf it is very conveniently located and is a minute's walk from pier 39 . the back entrance to the hotel takes you straight out on to the street . the room we had was on the first floor looking onto the pool area . it was very clean with the usual comforts such as coffee and free wifi . we loved the feature wall , giving the room a modern feel . the only downside to the location of our room was that as it was directly above the porters area , we were constantly disturbed by the slamming door they went through every time they needed a luggage trolley . other than this , it was fine with friendly , helpful staff .
have stayed twice at the westin grand central - this used to be the new york helmsley hotel in midtown east . the first time i stayed here , it was just at the beginning of the renovation and i had some issues checking in and with room , but those were related to the conversion . the second time , i stayed in august 2012 - i was there the day they re - launched the westin . pros : great westin rooms , heavenly bed , good amenities and service . cons : no restaurant and bar when i stayed there ( check with the hotel ) , and the location is a little boring if you're looking for nyc excitement . all - in - all , decent hotel if it's the right area , and has all the westin / spg perks .
we stayed at hotel st . james for three nights april 29 - UNknown , 2012 . we had checked trip advisor before booking the hotel and were impressed with the price , location , and cleanliness . although this is not a hotel with many ammenities , it does have free wi - fi which is , definitely , a bonus . the staff is friendly , our room was very clean , and the location was great ( just a block from broadway and convenient to everything ) . there is not a coffeemaker in the room , but there are two delis / cafes right next door . if you will be touring around the city during the day and evening , you will think this hotel is fine for your needs of just sleeping overnight . great price for a great location !
i'm a fan of ritz - carlton's . who's not ? but i do have high expectations when staying there . in general this property is great . the reception actually knew who i was before setting foot inside the lobby - great touch . the service was spot on . the primary restaurant is an elway's - i love it . the room was large and clean . my one personal criticism : they put me in a room by an elevator . i know someone has to stay in these rooms but you would think that ritz could find a way of making them quiet - probably my largest criteria for quality . i was only there for a night so i UNknown it out , but i did not have a good night sleep . i expect better from this type of property .
stayed at the marriott marquis in february '08 . booked with marriott rewards points and ended up with a top - floor suite for regular point award ! ( request room UNknown if you like a high - floor , quiet ! room with a view of times square . ) a day after we had checked out and gone home , realized that my daughter had left a bag full of makeup and jewelry in the room . it was actually one of the plastic marriott laundry bags that she had stuffed her things in . i called their lost and found and they had in fact found it ! they asked her to identify some of the jewelry ( was good luck that some of it was monogrammed . ) they sent it out via UNknown overnight express . fabulous service ! highly recommended !
this hotel is ok if you get a good price on the internet . the room rate i was offered did not include breakfast or internet access . so you have to pay and pay again . the room i had on the 22nd floor was large enough but had not been aired and smelled unpleasantly humid . i was able to open the window about four inches and after a few hours it was ok . the bathroom had a good shower and everything worked ok . there is a good writing desk and light , and the internet was fast . the staff were very efficient and check out literally took 15 seconds . one problem was that the room safe was locked when i checked into the room - this should have been checked when the room was prepared after the last guest .
stayed for five days and was pleased with everything at the hotel . the location was very convenient as far as restaurants and other activities . i was able to walk from the hotel to the pepsi center for an UNknown game with no problem . the complimentary breakfast was well setup and stocked each day ; plenty of seating room as well in the lobby / breakfast area . the hotel gym was larger than most marriott properties - if i didn't have a nasty cold i would've taken better advantage of it ! but it was nice to see more free weights and machines than in most other hotels . the room itself was the standard for an urban locale residence inn . everything was clean and well - maintained . i would definitely recommend it for business or personal travel in downtown denver .
it UNknown me that american reviewers are by far the most critical on trip advisor , yet i am yet to stay in a really good hotel in the us . the bad - the room was small , the a / c unit on the floor and so loud it was pretty much unusable . the bathroom was old , and decor generally desperately in need of a makeover . the good - staff were friendly and helpful and the location was perfect . at the end of the day , that surely is pretty much all that matter on a brief stay in manhatten - i slept ok and was close to everything . the walk to central park to about 20 minutes , the walk to grand central not even 2 . i would go back for the location and the location alone .
i had the pleasure of staying at the curtis last weekend and was surprised by how great it was . the decor is really unique and the atmosphere fun . there's little touches all around the hotel that just make you giggle like a kid . my personal favorite had to be the voices in the elevator . nothing like hearing rocky balboa announcing your floor number ! the location does not get any better either , just right across the street from the performing arts center . if you're looking for a truly unique - boutique hotel that offers a one - of - a - kind experience , and you like to have something called . fun , please make the curtis your top pick when you come to denver . ps - the cookies they give you at check in are so delicious !
we didn't think we could afford to stay downtown until we found this one for 169 . 00 , which is the rate on their website if you stay a fri . or sat . night . it was wonderful to be able to stay downtown and walk to all of the sights . another added bonus is the double decker bus tour that stops right next to the hotel . for the ticket price you can ride around for two days and get off and on at the stops to sight see . everyone was very friendly and our room was clean . beds and sheets were very comfortable . chinatown is right around the corner and we had the best chinese food we've ever had . many restaurants of all price ranges within walking distance , as well as a starbucks around the corner .
we stayed here for 3 nights and found the room to be just what we needed . the rooms were very spacious and we found them to be exactly as pictured on the website . no surprises there . we booked the parking package through UNknown . com , which was an excellent deal . the staff were very helpful and courteous . we especially like steve who helped with check - in . we called down for ice every night for our 2 rooms and was brought up in a couple of minutes . we also had to retreive things from our valet parked car a number of times with no problems . hey , we are a group of ladies over 60 except one in her 40's , we forget things . but , we had a great stay . we will be back .
we spent three nights here - room 409 was very quiet . it was everything advertised - great location ( near union square ) and very friendly staff . continental breakfast was excellent - we stored the fresh fruit for our lunches and the pastries / rolls / croissants hit the spot . we traveled w / our 11 yr . old son and for $ 10 each night they provided a rollaway bed . we enjoyed the complimentary wine and dined one night at fino which has a very reasonably priced menu w / tasty food . you are not far from a cable car line ( powell and post ) and if you are spending a few days there i recommend the muni passport that you can buy at the powell and market station as each cable car ride is $ 5 a throw !
i am a frequent customer of the affinia liaison capitol hill hotel in washington , dc . i thought i would try their sister hotel in nyc . well , some friends who had stayed there didn't really like but i thought i would try . i have to tell you when i opened the door to my hotel room , i felt as if i was back in the 70's . the bathroom mirror was faded . it reminded me of when i stayed at a hotel in new orleans in may 2006 - 9 months after hurrican katrina . the doorman at the affinia manhattan was not helpful at all . he mainly just stood outside running him mouth with a colleague . the location of the hotel was great and the restuarant wasn't bad . i won't stay at this hotel again though .
pros : * excellent and accomodating front desk . i asked for a city view ( jokingly ) and they gave me that and the top floor ! * beautiful hotel - well kept , the elevator ride was always fun , and the atrium is reminiscent of a ny UNknown . * bartender was awesome * comfy bed cons * tv was hard to see because it was in a cabinet that was facing away from the bed . * breakfast was ok with room service * not close to any non - hotel restaurants - must walk under the light rail and then several blocks to the west end . would be ok if downtown dallas were a busy night town but it's really dead at night and felt unsafe . once on hotel property , they had enough visible security to feel safe .
we scored a room with hotel tonight for $ 89 and got a queen room on the highest floor . very quiet ! we have stayed in their property in seattle so we know that rooms are small but clean & service is efficient . just for one night so a great union square location near everything . we have a car so parking is an issue but that's not their fault . nice but small flat screen on the wall , comfy bed , basic bath with shower . we won't spend much time in the room so it's plenty good . that's why we get so much value at their hotels . plus they now have a wine hour , so that's a bonus ( plus so - so free wifi . the kind you have to keep enabling through a portal page ) !
we found the hotel to be first class . at first impression the hotel location seemed a little UNknown . however this is not the case and it is within easy walking distance of times square , pennsylvania train / subway and the main port authority bus depot . it is worth mentioning that we found new york to be a very safe place , i have never seen as many police in a city as i witnessed in new york . all the hotel staff were extremely helpful and facilities were good . free wifi in the room was an essential for us . the rooms were cleaned and towels changed daily . the breakfast choice was a lot more extensive than we were led to believe . to summarise , i would have no hesitation in recommending this hotel and would definately stay here again
i can say for a fact that i've never been given a hotel room this dirty before . since the hotel was " sold out " , there was nothing they could do to offer me a better room apparently . the bathtub was dirty and i refused to take a shower , so i really am glad i was only here for a short time . and $ 40 / night for parking was totally ridiculous ! this hotel is overpriced . i usually stay at the courtyard marriott when i'm in boston , but this hotel was a bit cheaper so i tried it . let's just say i'll never stay here again . the only plus for me was the location - it's walking distance to many restaurants and shops ( but , then again , so are lots of other hotels . )
we were in philadelphia for a business trip and stayed at the four seasons hotel . this is a beautiful well - appointed hotel in the middle of center city . the decor was stunning , the rooms were spacious , clean and had great amenities . the service staff was exceptional , from the valets to the people at the front desk to all other staff at the hotel . everyone made you feel so welcome and pampered . several times we were sitting in the lobby waiting to meet someone when at least one of the service staff asked if they could get us some bottled water or anything else . the restaurant was elegant with a fantastic and tasty menu . if you want to be pampered and enjoy a hotel in philadelphia , the four seasons is the only one to try !
i was in denver for a conference and stayed at the hilton garden inn for 4 nights . i had a large king corner room with very comfortable bed . room was not noisy , bathroom was clean and good size . all expected amenities present . pleasant stay . the pi restaurant is good for breakfast and occasional bite with good service but they are a bit lax in attending when you first walk in with very less staff ( after breakfast rush hour ) . gym is small and tucked away in basement where there is also a small pool . its situated across from the convention center and other major hotels but is quite far from the airport . so if you are in town where major business is in downtown , then its a good choice . plenty of good restaurants around .
we have stayed here twice now over the last few years . the hotel decor is modern and fun . the rooms are extremely clean . exceptional staff - made us feel incredibly welcome by giving great restaurant recommendations , sending up champagne ( it was our anniversary ) , and serving wine in the evening / coffee in the morning . nice location right off of the 16th street mall , with a short walk to coors field or larimer square . pets are welcome , but you don't feel as if they have ever been in your room if you arrive without one . the only downside is the $ 31 daily valet parking fee if you park on site , but it is downtown & parking is a premium . this is one of our favorite hotels , and we'll definitely stay again !
the omni dallas is a beautiful , modern hotel in downtown dallas next to the convention center . we stayed here for my wife's birthday and really enjoyed our stay . the staff was friendly and our room was relaxing . we stayed on the seventh floor in a suite . it was very spacious and had nice amenities . my wife enjoyed the mirror while i fell in love with the built in tv in the bathroom mirror . the outdoor pool was really nice with beautiful views of dallas . the fitness center is located there with a view of downtown dallas . for dinner we choose to eat at bob's steak and chop house . we both had ribeye with glazed carrots . our dinner was wonderful . i would highly recommend the omni dallas hotel . go here for an amazing experience !
the hotel , room and service were are all fine . my complaint is that i hate hidden charges . my credit card was billed $ 5 for shuttle service to the airport . i didn't know about the charge until i received my statement . the account rep was very cordial and offered to credit my account but an UNknown hotel would not have charged my card in the first place . it's not about the money . the real catch is that they had no way of knowing if i took the shuttle or not . it is apparent that they charge all guests for the shuttle and rely on the guest to catch it . there is also no notification that the shuttle charges a fee . i don't mind paying small fees like this , just be clear about it up front .
i was at this hotel on august 1 - 7 . i too was informed at the last minute ( when i registered ) that the pool & cabana area was under renovation . i booked this package ( summer in hollywood ) a month before getting there . no one mentioned to me that the pool was under renovation . what idiot in hotel management decides to do a pool renovation in august , and then sell a package called , summer in hollywood . then i was told that travel websites were sent this information . funny how the hotel's own website doesn't mention the renovation . and they issued a letter ( placed in everyone's room ) to all guest apologizing for the inconvience . and no compensation was offered . the least they could have done is offered the guest free breakfast .
i was in denver for a conference and stayed at the hotel monaco . there were some nice features , such as the nightly happy hour , lemon water in the lobby all day long , a wonderful restaurant and a mini - bar credit at check - in . they also let me check into my room early , which is a wonderful thing when you've traveled across the country . the reason i only give it 3 stars is the neighborhood is a little bit sketchy and i didn't feel safe walking back and forth to my conference . also , my room was tiny and had a view of a parking lot . i was disappointed - being in denver i had hoped to have a nice view . the staff was courteous and the restaurant really was a highlight of the trip .
a couple of weekends ago i drove up to denver for a close friends wedding and decided to stay downtown after the wedding . i chose the courtyard marriott because of its central location and reasonable prices . i've stayed in courtyards before and wasn't really expecting any bells and whistles but i was surprised to find that this hotel was unlike other courtyards . it had a historic feel , and really exceptional service . sara at the desk was extremely helpful and directed me and some friends to a couple of great local bars . once i made it to my room i found it to be very spacious , clean and the bed was very comfy . the only downside was the price of parking . however i would definatley recommend this hotel and will stay again when i'm in denver next time .
first the lobby smells awful but it is clean . the restaraunt was decent but over priced . the room is out dated but very clean . the bathroom smelled strongly of bleach but there is a seperate vanity room . the kitchen is an amazing amenity and there is a liqour store and 24 hour cvs just feet from the front door . the beds were comfortable but you could hear full UNknown downstairs . the only parking is $ 30 valet service . don't think you can find a metered spot . i tried . they are all 2 hour limits even blocks away and including weekends . also , the metro is about a half mile and in the cold can seem far but the area is nice and safe even around 12am . overall a good place to stay on a budget .
my wife and i UNknown for two nights on the 1st week aug . first impression was sour one when ushered into an old UNknown 8th floor room - small , old and no view . upon having politely complained to the manager about our room not meeting hotel's great reputation , he ( marc ) personally toured us to the rooms in the new wings . one of which we found great , on the corner 8th floor overlooking geary st . considering i called in the morning to book the night at $ 235 , and even forgot to flash starwood gold membership , i think it turned out to be an excellent stay . not a first class lobby and in - hotel stores . but the service and room quality beat them all . and it's great location - needless to mention !
having been to new york several times before and always staying midtown , we decided on a change ! this hotel is perfect in everyway , the area is fab , within walking distance to all the downtown areas . the f and v subway lines are just across the road so everything in the whole of new york is easily accessable . the staff on the desk were very friendly ( such a change for us , usually the most we get is a grunt in midtown ! . oops ! ) the room itself was good , very comfy bed , flat screen plasma , ipod dock , free wifi internet , nice bed linen , clean bathroom , fridge and microwave ! we enjoyed sugar for brekkie and the italian in wholefoods was pretty awesome too ! love , love , loved it !
our stay at warwick melrose was fantastic ! when we arrived , the valet was there to greet us on a very busy friday evening and welcomed us warmly . the hotel and lobby area is beautiful in itself and definitely stands apart from your average upscale hotel - the decor is stunning ! they even have a bar with an awesome cocktail menu , not to mention , great live music / piano bar ! we spent much of our time at the bar during the evenings and it was a perfect way to end every night . the rooms were definitely spacious and so comfortable & clean ! if you are looking for a fabulous , clean , comfortable hotel that is centrally located to several restaurants , bars , lounges in the dfw area , you should definitely be staying at warwick melrose !
a good hotel that was good value and had a great location with one amazing surprise , a view of alcatraz from the bed ! the area outside at the back near the pool was also great especially of an evening when they had a large fire going and we were able to sit out for hours relaxing . the rooms were nice enough and although not massive were perfectly fine and clean . the staff were extremely helpful with where to go and how to get there , even had a private taxi that was much better value than the local ones that we used on occasions . overall there was nothing bad about the hotel at all but at the same time there was nothing truly outstanding to write home about but for the price we paid it was tempting to give it 5 .
we stayed 4 nights for 460 dollars in a executive room ( UNknown located ) . for that price i think it is ok . but i can't say the hotel was more than average . the lobby was good , the location is perfect near union square . it is a good place to start your stay in san francisco . the bathroom was good , clean hotel . the room was also ok , but the airco and heater where simple , but worked . the room is big , internet works good . for the price they normally charge it is to expensive . but maybe hotels in san francisco are all a little expensive . we had a good stay . if you walk to union square there is a cafe lefty o'douls on the same street , good place for breakfast .
recently stayed for five days with grandchildren 10 and 8 . hotel's location is ideal for sightseeing and the staff delivers with friendly service . the roof top pool was a bonus in the august sweltering heat . the maid service kept the room very organized which was a challenge with the young energetic children . we ate breakfast and a light dinner one evening at the budget saving west wing cafe , a mere half block away . also union station is an easy walk for inexpensive meals . taxi tip - the taxi fare policy in dc no longer charges for additional passengers . this means a family of four can go from the hotel to the door step of the destination for less than metro in most cases . this does not apply to vans that still add a dollar per additional passenger .
we have stayed at this hotel a number of times and we were always very satisfied with the whole experience . we were just there last week and found out they plan to close the restaurant and the lounge on the 36th floor . i am not a fan of hotel food , although we found the food at the restaurant to be very respectable . what really bothers me is the closing of the lounge , we always went up for a drink before dinner , and to take in the tremendous view . very few hotels in the city have a bar with such great views , it will be missed . we were told it will become a room for business meetings , etc . i wish they would reconsider this move , it is one of the reasons we keep coming back .
me and my husband found a great " last UNknown deal " for la including flight + hotel + car so in this case we did not picked this marriott . however , we liked the hotel . it was clean and nice and if you are in la for business , god , this location is amazing it is just right in front of world trade center and many other banks and UNknown . we did not like the restaurant and bar much it was pricey for what they offer and you have to use valet parking $ 17 pn , which is not too bad for downtown la . over all it was good but if i want to go to la again for vacation i would not stay there , i perhaps book a room in hollywood district or santa monica beach area .
i accompanied my husband to a conference in philadelphia . we took a laptop and ipad for both of us as staying in touch with the family and friends is my traveling priority . after trying to be connected with wi fi and having failed it for several times i called the reception and they said they were experiencing some problems with the internet and suggested i go downstairs for the password . which i did but to my surprise i was told that internet is not free . for extra $ 10 i can get connected and enjoy the stay at the hotel . well , i enjoyed the view over the franklin bridge , the six pillows on our king bed but refused to pay extra for the internet . even in the third world countries hostels and hotels offer free internet service ! .
my family stayed for two nights in august at the marriott fisherman's wharf at the start of our california trip . we arrived about noon and had easy check - in with the very courteous staff up front . our room was small but clean and nice . the location is excellent , right near the wharf and close to north beach and chinatown . easy to walk everywhere if you enjoy exercise ! the staff here was really great . friendly and professional . we were amazed at the international feel of the guests . it was fun to hear the different languages . the lounge area downstairs is nice . great bar with microbrews on tap and big screen tv . no pool or spa . only UNknown for that and rooms are a little small . otherwise a great place to stay ! .
recently stayed at the marriott for business travel , needed to be close to the convention center . i would not rate this hotel as a 4 star property at all . maybe a 3 star . we changed rooms after the first jr . suite they gave us on a lower floor was in desperate need of renovation plus the heat did not work . ( this room would not even qualify for 2 stars ! ) we were moved to a higher floor and although the room was better , it still was more like a 3 star hotel . once again , the heating did not work well . on a positive note , the bed was comfortable and the service was great . they say they are renovating this year , so maybe after the completion , we would consider staying again .
very conveniently located , just up from union sq , quick access to bart train and city public transport . we stayed for 4 nights in a loft king room on the tenth floor . the room was very spacious with a large and very comfortable king - sized bed and powerful shower ( keep the peppermint shampoo away from your eyes . ) . the windows only have single glazing so street noise can occasionally be disturbing - ask for a room high up and perhaps facing away from geary st . we found all the staff attentive and friendly . one slight criticism : the hotel does charge extra ( or offers special packages ) for internet access . other hotels have realised this is a bit like charging for water or electricity use . despite this , we would definitely stay there again .
we stayed at the palace for my birthday earlier this week . we got in on one of the special rates , so did not expect a great view for the price . but ( perhaps because it was my birthday ) we were given a view of st patricks , which was wonderful . the room was lovely . some of the best sleep we have had in a long time . although we didn't make use of many of the amenities ( other than a couple of trips to the bar ) , they seem to have everything you could wish for . all the employees that we encountered were very nice . the location cannot be beat . the only suggestion ( and this is a nit ) is that they would provide complimentary wi - fi . hope to be back again .
the room is clean . there are lots of restaurant options in the area . the breakfast is donuts and coffee . the fridge in the room hasn't worked in liked a decade ( might be an exaggeration ) . wi fi is included but the signal is low . room smells stale but we sprayed room fresher all around and opened the window for a little bit then turned on the air a little later . cnn , hbo , espn channels included through direct tv . service is nice enough . bed is pretty clean as fat as we can tell . thick curtains block out most of the light . bathroom looks a little dingy . toilet seat is slightly discolored . floor has tiny bits of white paint or plaster . about to take a shower , hopefully it's not too disappointing .
as you can tell from my headline , this is not an intimate little boutique hotel . the staff are very helpful and cheery considering what a zoo it is . indeed , the hotel was fully booked the nights we were there and the lobby was like grand central station . because we got there late afternoon , we ended up in rooms next to the elevator ( these end in 24 ) in the old building . it was a bit noisy when the elevators opened up in the morning but the staff agreed to move us to the newer tower which was quieter . also , it's almost impossible to get a bell boy because it so hectic . so if you want to bring your luggage down , check out or speak to the concierge try to do it at off hours .
i flew my partner to new york for her 40th birthday and we had a wonderful time . we had stayed at the hampton inn once before for business and loved the location / hotel so much , that's where i booked our trip to . i spoke with the manager ( jonathan brooks ) about having a nice bottle of wine in the hotel room for our late arrival and low and behold , he had it ready in our room with two wine glasses . after a long day of travel and the special nature of the trip , jonathan and his staff made it all the better ! so thank you to jonathan and all the wonderful staff at the hampton inn . the room was clean , lovely and the bed was soooooooo comfortable . well done , everyone and thanks again !
this hotel is very nice , albeit a bit corporate , but that's exactly the market they are aiming for with the location being in central downtown la . the building is iconic and easy to recognise . we had a standard double room in the blue tower . the room was well equipped and the bed was really comfy . within the building there are a number of shops and a great micro - brewery in house . the problem with this place is not the quality of the hotel , but more to do with the fact there isn't much to do downtown as its in the financial services district and this part of the city pretty much empties after 6pm when the workers go home . we didnt have a car , but that was mainly because the parking here is really expensive .
i recently spent nine nights at the hotel and absolutely loved every minute . my accomodations were perfect : clean , efficient and stylish . lots of fluffy towels and the bed linens were sublime . the pillows , too ! the bar has a hip vibe and great cocktails and the location is ideal for theatre , great restaurants and access to public transportation to get you anywhere in the city . but the real charm of this hotel is its staff . from the doormen to the room attendants , front desk staff to the " whatever / whenever talent coach " ( concierge ) who even sent hot tea to my room one day when i was ill , everyone was friendly , accomodating and 100% invested in making my stay enjoyable . wonderful experience all around - i'll be back for sure .
we just got back from staying in the opera suite for thanksgiving week . we chose this place because of its proximity to the parade route and also many great upper west side restaurants . the owners and housekeeping staff were wonderful . the room was very spacious . our 5 year old daughter was traveling with us and the room is so well planned , we almost didn't know she was there after she went to sleep - we could watch tv from the main sleeping area while she slept on the sofa bed in the front of the suite without disturbing her . the kitchen is well equipped and thoughtful snacks are provided . if you want to feel like you are at a nice , private home while in nyc - this is the place to stay . thanks for a great week .
we stayed in a deluxe king on the 4th floor of the old section and it was just beautiful . we love the old pictures , woodwork and the old atmosphere . i paid a little more for the deluxe but it was well worth it . the room was very big , bathroom a little small but how much time do you spend in it . we enjoyed the view of union square . our other family member stayed in the newer section on floor 25 but we loved our room and it was well worth it . they printed our boarding passes for us and everyone was very nice and helpful . we loved it and are ready to go again ! i knew the double bed room would be way too small after reading . trust me this room was well worth it !
i stayed 5 nights and this hotel exceeded my expectations ( which i admit were modest ) . my room was clean and spacious . the shared bathroom facilities were kept clean and i never had to wait to use them . the included wifi internet was of reasonable speed . the highlights were the great location - easy access to public transport , a very short walk to chinatown and market st in what felt like a very safe area - and the friendly and accommodating staff . they acknowledged me with a smile whenever i walked past and were quite happy to let me leave my luggage in my room well past check - out time due to my late night flight from san francisco . some street noise and occasional noise from hallways and adjacent rooms were very minor annoyances and easily ignored .
we were moved to this hotel for our first night as our original hotel was over booked . i loved the grey room , the black corridors , the entrance lobby is fab . we stayed on the 33rd floor . i found the staff to be great . their whatever wherever service is good . we had a problem with our safety deposit box , within minutes the security guys were up taking a look at it and replaced it for us . we were also able to check out before leaving our room over the tv system . i was sad to leave the hotel , great location , a little noisy from street noise but it is times square , you can hardly expect it to be quiet ! i would definately stay there again , what a great funky , young hotel !
just back from a trip to nyc which we thoroughly enjoyed , however it has to be said , despite the hotel . location is excellent , close to central park , walkable to times sq . staff are friendly and the free breakfast is a nice touch . however the bed was very uncomfortable , room had a constant noise outside and heating system is so old it needs to constantly release air to release pressure in the radiators , thus adding to the noise . rooms are small and in a double room we had one tiny wardrobe and 3 drawers . not good enough in summary . i have been in one other hotel in nyc of similar price ( which wasnt available ) , and it is much better value for money . so i know there are better offers out there .
stayed here for four nights over new year . while there was little new year athmosphere in dc we had a very nice stay in the city and this hotel . lobby area is impressive . staff are not falling over themselves to be friendly and helpful though . found the female concierge much more helpful that the male one . rooms are decent size and very comfortable . we staying on the eight floor ( executive floor ) but the lounge was closed for the holiday period . instead there was complimentary tea / coffee / hot chocolate waiting for you outside your door each morning . location is great . a few minutes from the white house . buses , metro , etc . very convenient . some very nice restaurants nearby . georgetown very nice . would certainly recommend washington and this hotel .
i was really careful about reading reviews first and this hotel stuck out to me . i was really impressed when i got there , when we first pulled up there was someone there right away . i loved all the dogs that were there and they seem to cater to them . i wish i would have brought my dogs , it is a really good location , we were traveling to go to a hockey game and i dont think we could have found a better location . the staff was very helpful with directions , i am from a small town and had only been to denver a few times before . if you stay here make sure you ask for a goldfish it really made the trip a little more special because i have never had a goldfish in my room before .
we have stayed at this crowne plaza many times and have generally been satisfied . on our last stay , however , ( 3 / 17 / 12 ) we found the hotel was looking worn around the edges . the hallway on your floor was terribly lit ( think they replaced the lights with energy efficient bulbs ) and was so dim it made the dark , poorly vacuumed carpets look even shabbier . our room was okay - again a little worn and we were disturbed twice by noisy , drunk guests . while the staff was responsive to the noise level , it is not the first time that there have been problems with rowdy guests . while we probably will stay here again , because we use priceline to get a good rate , can no longer give it better than average .
i pricelined and got the club quarters for a great deal for the star rating . i did know it was a business hotel , but didn't realize each room UNknown only one person . although my friend and i were find to stay in the same bed , if i were with anyones else it would quite the akward situation . the rooms were tiny and our bathroom flooded . we asked UNknown time for them to fix the drain and finally they did , but we had to put up a fight . we kept asking for more towels , about the 2nd day we finally got them . one queen bed is not ok for 2 people traveling for pleasure . i loved the water bottle service , went there were bottles available . not my favorite travel experience .  .  .
we recently stayed at the stadium holiday inn while attending a concert at the citizens bank ballpark . the hotel was very convenient to the stadium complexes . it is within easy walking distance of all of the stadiums and sports arenas . the hotel was very clean . check - in and check - out were very friendly and easy . we had a nonsmoking king room on the 10th floor . we had a very nice view of center city from our room . we did not eat in the hotel restaurant , so i cannot comment on this . the lounge was a sports bar that had several large screen tvs along the wall . the hotel was probably overpriced . however , we realized that we were paying for the convenient location and knew going in . overall , an enjoyable experience .
enjoyed our stay at the mansfield . great location just blocks from grand central station , times square , central park , st patricks cathedral and rockefeller center . hotel was extremely well kept . staff were friendly and always available . room was clean and well maintained . yes , there was road construction going on outside which created quite a bit of noise but the hotel had no control over it . we just took that as part of the " city " experience . yes , the hallways , bathroom and elevators were small and narrow but the hotel was not built in 2003 but rather UNknown . to me this is how you get the real experience of visiting new york . we thoroughly enjoyed our stay and plan to be back at the mansfield the next time we visit new york .
needless to say , great price ( i paid about $ 150 per night occupying with 3 people ) , great location ( only a block away from the union square , close to cable cars and shops ) . i stayed in a double room with my family for three nights and the room was excellent ( for the price , of course ) ! what i liked was that there was a window in the bathroom . that gave me a feeling as if i was actually living in an apartment in sf ! hotel staff was always nice and helpful . just one negative thing was bed matress was a bit too soft for me ( maybe it was because it's pretty old ) . if i have another chance to travel to sf , i will definitely stay at king george again .
if you are looking for good location park hotel is the best , is in the heart of the city just around the corner from union square and china town , a few minutes walk from bart , and shopping district . there are free internet access in the rooms , a small refrigerator too . they have a coin operated laundry on the first floor , microwave , one computer for using the internet , and free local calls . the staff are really helpful and friendly , erik and rodel are very nice , they are willing to help to find good and cheap restaurants , things to do or directions . maybe if you need breakfast at 5 : 00 a . m . rodel can do something for you . and the most important is absolutely inexpensive for to be in sf downtown
i stayed here for four nights in august 2004 . overall , excellent location . 10 minute walk to union square . 2 minute to chinatown . the room is average size . but $ 400 for a regular room per night is excessive . there are plenty of hotels with similar quality and much cheaper . the staff overall are courteous . but , a maid did walk in on me almost naked at 9 : 30pm . i didn't hear her knock at all . i think a turn down service at 9 : 30 pm is outrageous . there are plenty of people who go to bed early . therefore , if you go here on company expense , then by all means , go for it . otherwise , try elsewhere at half of the price and still get a decent room .
we checked into our room and walked around hotel . hotel landscaping and pool are was well maintained but outdated . the exterior of the hotel looks like a concrete prison . the exterior is outdated and in need of major repairs . we were in room 1331 on the third floor . the drywall was cut out over our door and had exposed pipes and wires hanging over it . there were many other places where the drywall was cut out also on the third floor . i would have assumed it was under renovation but my carpeting was wet when we walked in room . room had decor from the 70's . blue stained carpeting , lopsided beds , and  in poor condition . i'm shocked that they would rent out rooms in this condition . worst hotel rooms i have ever experienced .
my partner and i booked a suite for a 2 night stay during our honeymoon in jan 07 , and had the most amazing time . we were put in a suite on the 7th ( top ) floor , and the UNknown view really is as amazing as the website indicates . so many staff members congratulated us on our civil union , in a friendly - but - not - intrusive kind of way . we were given a complimentary bottle of champagne , rose petals were scattered on our bed - all in , we were made to feel special . breakfast in the room is served elegantly , and is super high quality . we very rarely take baths , instead preferring the shower , but we couldn't resist this one , with its view of the bay bridge . absolutely recommended .
my fiance and i stayed here for an impromptu trip to philly . i used to live in the area , so i knew it would be a close walk to a lot of the places we wanted to visit . for those complaining about price , c'mon . you know when you go to a large city , they always jack prices up . i thought the price was very good for what you get . i really liked the little " goodie " bag on the bed . ours had a lavendar pillow spray and some other cute extras . the restaurant and bar at the hotel are very good . the bartender made us some very yummy drinks ! of course the prices are going to be a little more expensive , but they didnt cheap you on alcohol that is for sure !
we stayed in a deluxe room at the sofitel for two nights and very much enjoyed our stay . the hotel decor - from the lobby , to the restaurant , to the room - was excellent , and very well maintained . the staff members were incredibly friendly and helpful - they recommended UNknown sushi in the area , which was delish . the food in the restaurant was terrific , especially the cupcake of death . we were granted early check - in ( 12 : 00 p . m . instead of 3 : 00 p . m . ) and late check - out ( 2 : 30 p . m . instead of 12 : 00 p . m . ) . most of all , this hotel is in a great location , only two blocks from the white house .
we booked this hotel through expedia . com and got a great rate of $ 111 a night . the hotel is right around the corner from one of the main hubs for the t ( boston subway ) and is within 3 blocks of the gardens , where we took in a celtics game . we bought boston go cards online before our trip and everything we need was easy to get to from the t and alot of things were within walking distance from the hotel . the room was on the small side , but was very neat and clean . the bed was very comfortable and the sheets were soft ! i didn't mind that the room was small because we spent no time in it at all ! when we go back to boston will will stay at the bulfinch again .
this is the second time at this ritz . its a bit more " traditional " than the ritz in georgetown . i've stayed at both . the real highlight of this property is its proximity and availability of " the sports club / la right in the same building . this is a fantastic health club and the same elevators to the ritz go to the health club . i spent the whole day there . there is a nominal $ 15 / day charge however . well worth it . this hotel was wonderful as expected with luxurious rooms , wonderful staffing and a great new restaurant by eric UNknown downstairs . the only issue may be the location which seemed a bit of a distance for walking to georgetown or other sites , but that's why there are taxis ! i'll be back .
check - in staff were great , room was ok , great bed so good night sleep which is 85% of what you want , room has the classic problem of being too dark though , you find yourself turning on and off lights . bathroom , why oh why do we still have to stand in a small bath to have a shower , please . biggest disappointment was the new restaurant for breakfast , little choice and then not what you want , ie 5 or 6 choices of tea but no english breakfast , thought he was pulling my leg , but no . wouldnt be upset if i had to stay there again as it is at least next to the grand hyatt who do a great cheese plate at the bar in the evening . oh and georgetown . no its not
just returned from a weekend stay there . an overall unpleasant experience . if you can believe this , the motel actually ran out of towels as well as irons and ironing boards . we had also requested a roll away bed when we booked the room months before , and were told they had run out , leaving one of our guests sleeping on the floor . at 3 a . m . , the smoke alarm battery died waking us all up with a constant beeping sound . it took the staff 30 minutes to come up with a new battery . the sheets had stains , the room smelled like cigarette smoke ( though we requested a non - smoking room ) , and there was trash in front of our motel door that was never picked up . i'll never go back .
we stayed at the americana inn for four nights in september 2011 . we were not very happy for the following reasons : 1 . in the reservation we had specifically asked for a quiet room . the room we had the first two nights was not quiet at all . the room was located at the corner of the hotel . it was facing two streets . after we complained at the front desk we got a somewhat more quiet room . however , traffic noise stil came into the room via the spaces around the poorly fitting a / c unit . 2 . on one day there was literally crap in one of the hallways . 3 . when we wanted to check out on the morning of our departure , there was nobody at the front desk for more than one hour .
my husband & i stayed there for two nights . if you wanted oatmeal for breakfast , you had to go down in the cellar to use the microwave . also , the first night our sheets got spoiled with coffee & crumbs from eating in bed . left the " note " on the bed ( that is what you are supposed to do if you want the sheet changed the next morning ) to have the sheets changed the following morning & all the crumbs and stained sheets were never changed . housekeeping was poor . we would never stay there again . we left and went to chestnut hill hotel , now that's a great place with great ! we should've stayed there all three nights , but we unable . dan at the front desk was great @ conwell , very helpful .
overall , the decor , comfort , and conveniences of this homewood property stand out from other locations and chains . staying here for a night wasn't cheap but it was a nice way to wrap up our family vacation before flying home . the separate bedroom suite works well with young kids , though the bathroom is in the bedroom instead of in - between as in other suites we've visited . we enjoyed dinner across the street at uno's ; other options are nearby . the shuttle van to the airport runs only every 45 minutes ; while it wasn't a problem for us , it would be better if it ran more frequently ( with two vans if needed ) . breakfast was fairly standard for the chain - a nice quality buffet selection including waffles and egg / ham / bagel sandwiches .
my wife and i stayed at hotel monaco for 3 nights at the end of june . we went with the suite for about $ 260 / night . it was well worth the extra money . this was one of the nicest rooms i have stayed in for the money anywhere - including four seasons and the plaza in nyc . we received a corner suite that was huge , with large bay windows overlooking the chicago river and up towards the mag mile . room was UNknown done and very clean . service was friendly and location is right off michigan close to everything and the blue line train from o'hare . the only minor complain i can think of was the bathroom was a bit small for a suite . i would stay here again hands down , and highly recommend the place .
stayed in this hotel recently and it was fine . staff were polite and helpful , not that i had much cause to interact with them . the double room was perfectly fine , a bed , desk , two chairs , large flat screen tv on the wall , phone and clock radio , air - con unit . what more is needed ? adequate bathroom - shower over the bath , sink and toilet . we were in nyc to be out and about and have a good time - we just need the room to crash in and recharge our batteries ( literally and UNknown ) . only thing i would have added to improve would be a small fridge . the bath was slow to drain but that really wasn't a problem . absolutely fine . would return again in the future .
two night stay at stratford exceded our expectations . the location is absolutely perfect . we took the bart from the airport and hotel was less than five minute walk . we arrived early and were greeted by a very friendly and accomodating staff . our bags were stowed until check in time and we headed out . bus and muni are also only a few minute walk away and the trolley runs directly in front of the hotel . had lunch and returned to hotel . rooms are very small but comfortable and clean . similar to accomodations throughout europe . walls however are a bit thin and can hear walking over head . we are not light sleepers so this was no problem for us . would definitely stay at this hotel again . cannot beat the price and location for downtown san francisco .
speedy check in . fast elevators . room was large with bed and sitting area . desk is a dream for business travelers . phone has great conference call / speaker capabilities so you can UNknown while on the phone . they have a universal charging station ready to go with UNknown charging tips for ipod / phone ; mini and micro ports . all three can charge at once . wireless a little slow so used the cable line and it worked like a dream . free internet was great . bathroom really clean with terrific " fresh " brand products . large bars of soap were a welcome surprise . front desk sent up a small box of handmade chocolates ; two bottles of water ; and a handwritten thank you note 10 minutes after i checked in . surprise and a welcome one !
the mountain views were breathtaking from the 10th floor room . from check in to check out , the staff were efficient and friendly ; all my needs were met in an instant . i was amused that the towels , linens and such were available for purchase through a catalog in the room . they were so nice that it was tempting to order ! since the actual products were there to use , it was like being at a sample sale . the hotel was fine in every way , but the best part of all was the location . some of the best of denver is just out the door , shopping , coffee shops , fine dining - all just a few steps away . it was a perfect night away and fine place to rendezvous with friends from aspen and denver .
we stayed here overnight while seeing shows tuesday night and wednesday . the hotel was spotless , and couldn't have been better located - 3 blocks from penn station , with a major subway stop about 150 feet from the front door . they supplied a more - than - generous " continental breakfast " as part of the room package as well . the room was very spacious by new york hotel standards , and care had obviously been taken to consider guests' needs ( i - pod docking , small refrigerator , top - of - the - line toiletries etc ) . the only downside was that there is a building being constructed on the next street ; the hotel thoughtfully provided earplugs ! we will be staying here again , and would highly recommend the hotel metro to anyone visiting new york .
we only stayed in denver for one night but it was made memorable by our experience at hotel teatro . the entire staff was top notch , including the valet guys , who were so helpful and just generally pleasant . the room was wonderful , beautiful bathroom , high end decor , and a really comfortable bed ! our favorite part of our stay , however , was our meal at kevin taylor . what a great asset to have such an incredible restaurant in your hotel . we did the tasting menu paired with some delicious red wines and it was amazing . not the mention the price was so reasonable for the quality of food and service , it totally blew our minds . when we head back to denver either this winter or spring , hotel teatro is where we will stay !
i stayed one night at this hotel . i flew up for one night to catch the lakers vs nuggets game . this hotel exceeded my expectations . the hotel is about ten minutes away from the stadium and the taxi cost about $ 7 . 00 with tip . the rooms were very spacious with a living room and kitchen . they do serve breakfest and i think between 17 : 00 and 19 : 00 they serve a happy hour dinner , complimentary . the staff was great and helpful . if you needed snacks , there were some in the room ( included ) , and downstairs there is a small market to buy stuff . if you need more , there is a 7 / 11 store across the street . if ever back in denver , this will be the place .
from check - in to check - out , their staff was friendly & accomodating . my husband & i , along with our daughter and son - in - law and their baby , and our son , stayed here for the thanksgiving holiday . due to a food allergy with one of our family members , we chose residence inn with its suite rooms and kitchen facilities so we could prepare some of our meals on - site . with it being a holiday , we weren't sure which area restaurants would be open . that turned out to be a good decision as we were unable to locate a place to eat on thanksgiving day . the complimentary hot breakfast offered a nice selection of entrees and continental options ; the daily hospitality hour in the evening was great for snacking and drinks .
the adagio was a great hotel in a great area of san fran . the lobby was lovely and had a wine tasting / jazz band playing on our night there which was lovely . the rooms were spacious with a good bed and bath . i had stayed a previous time at the clift just down the street and found the adagio to be a better value . while comparable prices , the adagio has cheaper parking ( still $ 40 / night , but not 50 ) , and free internet ( clift is $ 15 / day ) . my only complaint is that the room does get a little loud at night if you're there on a bar night . it isnt too bad . but i could hear people yelling on the street . obviously to no fault of the hotels !
like many flying out of lax to the east coast , a hotel close enough to make a 6 am flight without having to get up at 3 am to drive into the airport is a huge quality of life issue . we have been flying in and out of lax twice a month for a year now , and having a quiet place to lay our heads before a 4 am wake up is worth a whole heck of a lot . to find one with gardens , really great beds , and a good price is even better . all of our rooms have been clean - it is an older hotel , but it is clean and it is quiet and the shuttle runs regularly . we haven't had a single complaint with the hotel , rooms or the service . great value .
while a nice place to stay and recommended by the temple university hospital , i would not recommend staying here unless your itinerary is set in stone . my daughter was admitted to the hospital on a monday and we were told she'd be kept until wednesday . so my wife checked in on monday evening and told them she would need two nights . thankfully , our daughter was released a day earlier than expected . she checked out and was told she would have to pay for both nights . i spoke with UNknown general manager and she too told me they would not refund the second night . that is a terrible policy in general , and worse given that they are UNknown on those who are more worried about loved ones in the hospital than on the fine print at check in .
after the initial problems and a filthy room we were provided outstanding customer service by " john " the customer service agent who felt with the obvious issues which had been UNknown by other staff . we moved to another room which was actually clean , well set out and worthy of the star rating - a stark contrast of rooms . this hotel has the bones to be a good hotel , however management needs to look at the state of some rooms in terms of cleanliness and functionality such as broken and missing items . the clean rooms are great ! staff service is also a tale of two cities . we had some great customer service and also examples of customer service which showed no hospitality at all . a few small issues but overall a hotel with potential - not the worst .
so glad we chose to stay at the us grant . after our flight home to australia being delayed at los angeles for another 3 nights , we decided to leave the madness of la and see what san diego had to offer . we drove past the front door of the us grant at night and had to stop . the lobby itself is amazing ! the staff were all so friendly , especially the woman that served me . she even suggested a beautiful restaurant in little italy . ( called bon UNknown ! if in town i highly recommend ! ) our room was outstanding for the price , we even decided to stay an extra day than planned . all in all a wonderful experience , i would recommend to everyone and i hope to get back there one day ! : )
we were looking for a lower cost place in the hollywood area to be close to friends and attractions . this renovated motor lodge is so lovely ! it's amazing to find a place like this still going . the drive in check - in courtyard is beautiful with a pool in the courtyard as well . parking is reasonable and inside too . the rooms were clean although you could tell the age . bedding was great as well . not alot of extras but we had our own toiletries so not a problem . old fashioned keys and doors and a split level floor arrangement which was fun . we walked to the grove shopping area , just a few blocks , and felt secure . we will stay again if in the area . the cafe on the corner was excellent as well !
this is our second stay at the ritz carlton , battery park and we are sure there will be a third , fourth , fifth . etc ! we have stayed at other ritz carlton's and always stay on the club level . the value you receive for the extra charge per person is extraordinary . small meal and beverage services greet you for each portion of the day and the staff is second to none . when you enter the ritz carlton club floor , you essentially become part of a world you never want to leave ! husband , wife , 2 daughters ( 15 & 12 ) spent a short weekend enjoying a spring weekend walking in lower manhattan and taking in a broadway matinee . the accomodations wonderful and the view of ny harbor a treasure ! a true new york experience !
spacious , clean rooms . welcoming , professional , accommodating staff . when my grandson lost his " green UNknown " ring , nick ( of the front staff ) brought out a wagon with goodies , and told him to make a selection to cheer him up . the concierge bought a similar ring the next day for the child - both caring actions , done with a smile . they have a very good restaurant , eastern standard , attached to the hotel . they will be quick , if you need them to . very good location ( boston transit just a few steps to the left of the property , as well as a bus stop ; similarly dunkin donuts and convenience store ) . you can walk to fenway park . this hotel is our new place to stay in boston .
the four seasons houston has served the best type of service to my wedding block that stayed at the hotel between 5 - 7 nights . the level of service , the personal touches , attention to detail and not to forget the smile on their faces have made my wedding week including pre , day of and post celebrations a fantastic one . i had the pleasure to deal with some of the greatest people working at the hotel and worth recognizing . sarah smith , UNknown UNknown , maria lopez , michelle smith and many more who have adorned our special occasion and made us feel at home with a four seasons touch . i would recommend the four seasons hotel , not only for it's location and phenomenal spa but also for the staff that are making the guests' stay a memorable one !
booked via priceline and i suspect that's why we received a room adjacent to the staff elevator , where housekeeping banged their carts against our wall starting at 7a . m . housekeeping also entered the room to clean when we had a " do not disturb " sign up and made the bed with an obviously dirty pillowcase ( blech ) and could barely speak english . internet in the room did not work . the bathroom was dark and cold . the towels were cheap . the bed was uncomfortable and the heater was noisy . there was no dresser in the room . $ 40 valet parking ! ? ! aside from housekeeping , however , the staff was friendly and helpful . boy , would i have been upset had i paid anything close to this hotel's $ 180 weekday rack rate .
had a decent stay at the aloft prior to an early morning flight . on the plus side , the location was convenient , got 2 free drink coupons when checking in , and had secure gated parking . on the negative side , two different couples staying on my floor ( 4th ) decided to have a fight among themselves in the hallway between 1230 - 1am . the night before , my colleague who stayed at the hotel said that the fire alarm malfunctioned in the hotel and caused a periodic beep almost the entire night . also , the shades are not great in the room and let in a lot of light in the early morning . to top it all off , they charge $ 7 to park your car in a lot with hundreds of extra spaces . not joking .
wish i had been there longer to enjoy more of what this hotel had to offer , but what i did experience was great . one of the reasons i picked this hotel was my reservation experience . the reservation was very friendly and engaging and even though i had to change rooms the second day ( i knew that going in ) it did not spoil my stay . i like the older properties which have been updated myself and this is one of the nicer remodels i have stayed in . beds and linens were very nice . first night i had an inside room ( very quiet ) , second night i had an outside room on the 11th floor . maybe a tad more street noise but the view was worth it . all in all a wonderful stay and would recommend .
this is a very small hotel , with very itty , bitty reception desk after a few steps up . excellent location - very close to subway station ( f train ) , whole foods mkt , katz deli and other great restaurants and night life , including a movie theater . comfy bed in a very small room , but that's all i need for my stay . not much room for luggage or hanging closet , but i was there for only two days , so it's okay for a short stay . complimentary coffee in the room , but no space to put coffee pot . most of the plug outlets were non - working and frustrating when you try to charge your iphone . bring your own conditioner and shower cap . there's only shower gel and shampoo dispenser in the bathroom .
over the years i've stayed at many thompson hotels on both UNknown ( roosevelt , UNknown , thompson st , 6 columbus ) but this was by far the most disappointing experience . while the rooms are large and well designed , i was staying in a corner room UNknown with balcony ( great views of les ) and found the noise ( til around 2am ) from the bar / restaurant and from the hallways more disturbing than that from allen street and nearby houston . admittedly i had jetlag from a 22 hour flight from australia but hotel - sponsored noise is the last thing you want anywhere when you have to front up for a two way conference . while the staff are pleasant , the hotel simply lacks ambience of any kind , whether it's in the lobby or the bar / restaurant . not to the usual thompson standard . and when are they going to implement a loyalty scheme as they continue to expand ? i won't be staying here next time i'm in ny .
we just completed our trip in ny city , 6 " moms " were staying at the marriott . the rooms were decent size and it was clean . the lobby was beautiful and the location was great . there is a starbucks connected to the hotel , which was convenient in the am . the only poor experience we had was the service in the bar . we came back from dinner and wanted to have a drink at the bar , however , the waitress was unpleasant and seemed as if it was getting late and didn't want to wait on us , so we left . the bar / restaurant is spacious , but we never ended up trying it out . the fitness room was great and they provided complimentary apples and water bottles . the bell men were very kind and helped the 6 of us with storing our luggage , overall the service was excellent in the hotel . excellent view of the statue of liberty from our room . would definately stay there again .
we went to san diego in january 2012 for a small getaway . we have always enjoyed kimpton hotels and this one didn't disappoint . everyone at the hotel was incredibly friendly . our room was spotless , we upgraded to one of the flats and have so much space . our tv in the living room didn't work as i have seen others complain about , but it seemed to be just the hd channels and honestly , it wasn't a deal breaker . my only complaint was the parking , but you are in a major city and its to be expected . it was very expensive and took awhile to get the car . the best part is the location , about 10 minutes to the airport , walking distance to all restaurants and bars . it is on the edge of town where you can see things changing , but again your in a major city and its to be expected wherever you travel . pros : excellent customer service , location , gorgeous hotel cons : parking
once you leave the very nice lobby you enter a world where the rooms haven't been upgraded ( besides the beds which do rock ) since the 80s . tube television , formica furniture , dated soiled carpet . one day i get back in late to find out my room hadn't been cleaned , the next morning i stopped by the front desk and asked them to make sure it got cleaned . arrived the next night to see it was now 2 days with no maid service . this time i sat in the lobby while they cleaned my room . ate dinner one night in the restaurant since i didn't feel like going out . big mistake . horrendously bad food . mushy over cooked pasta , UNknown by bitter powdered garlic . prawns overcooked to a nice consistent chewy texture . saw no need to complain since any UNknown that let that food be served obviously didn't care at all . this hilton diamond member will never be back . it's a disgrace to the hilton name .
we didn't expect much since it was not a fancy hotel . however everything i need , they got it . they have free parking ( 70+ spots . i think ) , wi - fi , and breakfast . they also have an indoor swimming pool if you want to swim in the winter time . the room was clean , spacious and well insulated . it has goose down comforter so we didn't even turn on the heater while it was 40 degree outside . most of all , i was impressed by the breakfast . i only expected hot coffee and cold bagels . but there were tasty coffee , 3 different juices , do - it - yourself waffles , hot UNknown meals , boiled eggs ( chilled ) , muffins , biscuits with meet patties , yogurts , cereals , and more . i will recommend this hotel to anyone who wants to stay close to downtown . it took us less than 10 minutes to drive to the river walk and the river center mall .
after all the rave reviews of the lenox , i was prepared to be delighted , but unfortunately it was just okay . the location is great , certainly , and the hotel looks good . the staff were friendly and pleasant , but there were no special touches beyond what you'd expect at any hotel . our room was attractive , but really quite small , with a small double bed - we rather felt it was a room they reserved for priceline customers - and we were both unimpressed . we had good quality sleep though , with comfortable bed , darkness , and quiet . as for the bathroom , it was tiny with a miniature shower cubicle ( no bath ) . and in the morning of check out , the maid started loudly knocking on our door to clean our room at 9 : 45am ! it was a shame as it was my partner's birthday and i thought this would be somewhere special . it wasn't . don't pay over $ 200 for this one !
stayed at the hyatt regency august 5th through the 8th 2006 . coming from new york , we wanted to be near camden yards and the inner harbor and this hotel is in the heart of both ! the skywalk from the hotel's lobby leaves you steps from the inner harbor which is filled with excellent food , shopping and entertainment . we booked the package wherein you get two aquarium tickets so we went with the kids . we walked a few blocks to see our beloved yankees play two games and then strolled back to the hotel . the hyatt is very clean and efficient . the staff was helpful . the room was spacious and we had a very nice view . we did not experience a lot of noise as some reviewers have stated . the only downside were the elevators . we had to wait several times because they were full . not a big deal if you are on a lower floor but we were not . anyway , we would definitely stay here again !
the location is very convenient : it's only a half block from the blue line train from o'hare airport , at walking distance from many attractions , as for instance the millenium park and the art institute of chicago , and in the heart of chicago . besides , there are two subway stations just around the corner . the neighbourhood is very safe even at night . from my point of view , the only thing less positive is the reduced number of interesting restaurants nearby ( with a couple of exceptions , those existing in the zone are more or less fast - food restaurants ) . the room was not large but it had a decent size . the same applies to the bathroom . the decor is modern , pleasant and the beds are comfortable . everything is very clean and well maintained . the staff is very friendly and could not be more helpful . the breakfast is fair but not remarkable . overall , i find it highly recommendable , although it is not cheap .
this is a very nice refurbished hotel . i had a request for a king , they were out when we checked in , so they gave us a queen with a great view of the bay . it was very nice and clean . i thought the size of the room was fine . something i noticed is that the front desk area always smelled good , kind of like a spa . i thought that was a nice touch . they have free starbucks coffee in the morning and champagne at about 5 by the front desk . the ice machines are not in yet so just call and they will deliver it , and anything else you need right away . it is at the top of a very steep hill so just be sure to get a cable car pass so you can jump on if you are not always up for the walk . the staff was very nice and always greeted us weather we were leaving or returning . concierge was very informative and helpful .
i have stayed in different hotels in dc but grand hyatt is undoubtedly one of the worse of the lot . i booked 2 rooms there UNknown hotwire for 4 adults and 2 kids . we stayed there for 1 night on may 26th , 2012 . this hotel is very accessible to the mall area and has a very good exterior . at the check in i was told that we had 2 rooms with king beds the room was very small for accommodating kid's rollaway bed . i asked if i could get any room with 2 beds ( any size ) but they didn't seem to have any for me . they offered me a suite instead which can hold 2 rollaway beds easily . the so called suite had 1 very poor sofa queen bed as the main bed which was really bad ! rest of the amenities in the room were mediocre . i won't go in details about every small thing . but i UNknown won't recommend this hotel unless u have no other option .
first time in boston . stayed at the taj for 5 nights . it was the best price for the location . traveled with seven kids and we loved the UNknown location ! right across the street from the boston common park . subway is around the corner and across the street . great stores and restaurants . the staff was so nice and friendly . staff at the door was always so helpful and friendly . room service was good . the rooms are ok . really nothing to wow over and a bit small . we appreciated that the hotel is a historical location . i think if they changed their mattresses it would be a much better sleep . the beds are not great , but we liked the pillows . the decor is nice and the place was clean . no coffee maker in room but they serve complimentary coffee and muffins downstairs in the lobby . the coffee was great ! overall , i think this place is a great choice and would recommend to others .
stayed for a night at the grand hyatt new york . this was my first stay here since they finished renovations , and i have to say i really liked the result ! arrived the hotel early at 10 am in the morning , and did not expect to be able to check in so early , but the hotel had a room ready , and i was upgraded from a grand king room to a grand deluxe king , staff in the reception was very friendly . the room was nice and pretty large by new york standard , and everything was clean . as a hyatt gold pass diamond member i also had access to the grand club on the 16th floor which also has been refurbished , and had a good selection . late check - out was also not a problem , had the room until 2 pm . overall it was an excellent stay , to bad it was only for one night . will defiantly be back here next time i am in new york !
i wish all my other hotel stays were as good as my parker meridien experience . we travel alot for business and for pleasure and always read reviews on tripadvisor in advance of our trips and found the comments about the parker to be mixed and questionable , so we decided to check it out for ourselves - what a pleasent surprise to find out that the positive comments were right and the negative ones were wrong . our room was lovely with a wonderful view and lots of space . the temperature was perfect throughout the entire stay . our bathroom looked and felt clean . we tried normas and loved it - to much food . the burgers were great and worth the 15 minute wait . the hotel is close to everything . we only had one problem with the tv , but engineering came within minutes only to show us that our son pulled the batteries out of the control . we will be back - try it for yourselves , don't just believe what you read .
my husband and i reviewed this hotel on trip advisor before we booked and left . we called the day UNknown to make sure our reservation was set . we traveled by train and then the 1 / 9 subway to this hotel . it UNknown very easy to get too . there are 3 different subway stops with in 4 blocks of this hotel . we explored many restraunts in a one block radius also . all were very good and had a wide variety of food / price to choose from . the hotel is very clean , and small rooms . but it is nyc . we had a room facing the alley , but we were not in the room much except to sleep . the window did have a heavy drape to keep the sunlight out . very nice since we stayed out late and slept in late . people at the desk don't have customer service skills , but for the price / location / cleanliness you can not go wrong with a stay here .
my wife and i booked the crowne plaza based on it's location in times square and the fact we'd know what we'd get , which was a clean and accommodating hotel with all the required amenities . the staff were helpful and if you want to be in the centre of town you couldn't ask for better with a number of major attractions in walking distance . we'd stay here again if we were to stay in mid - town again but we'll more than likely head downtown next time as it's easier going with some great bars and restaurants . couple of suggestions : don't bother with breakfast as there are loads of eateries near by serving the quintessential american breakfast , like moonstruck on madison avenue . don't pay extra for the hudson river view as you can hardly see it due to other high rise buildings being in the way . even if you could see it it wouldn't be a great view as it's a sprawling city scape and the hudson is 6 or 7 blocks away .
first of all we must point out that the location of this hotel is perfect , since it is only 30 minutes away from the airport - via train - and is very close to all the UNknown of n . y . when i first read the rest reviews i was very disappointed and i decided not to book a room there for my UNknown stay in the city . however the prices of all the other hotels - even the worst ones - were very expensive and i thought that this hotel was good value , because after all we only wanted it for one sleep . the room was vey warm , it was being cleaned evry day , the staff was very kind and i had no problem at all when checking in and out . the bathroom was very old and needed renovation but the water was hot all the time . it is recomended to persons that prefer to spend their money on shopping and want a good , safe hotel just for the night .
i've stayed numerous times at the westin in downtown chicago on dearborn street . the hotel is easily accessible to the financial districts , shopping , restuarants and bars . the rooms are clean and comfortable and the staff are very friendly . there is a concierge level for spg platinum guests which makes it attractive for business travelers . UNknown is the employee who works most mornings here and is great . he is always willing to meet your needs for a snack or breakfest . wifi access is good in the room and they provide a desk large enough to get work accomplished on the road . the lobby bar / restuarant is clean and serves sushi and other non bar like food . the westin workout is larger than a standard hotel room which allows a decent workout to be accomplished . they even have a trainer on site , sam , who is very accomodating and helpful for providing clients with some on site training and advice . overall a great hotel for the price and location .
we couln't ask for more , the hotel is one block from the metro station , a free trolley to navy pier is just a few steps , walkable to almost every site and restaurants . front desk ladies were very nice and accommodating ( they allow us to check in earlier and check out late ) , the employes at the breakfast and buffet area always ready to help , food was good and help you save some money . room was big and clean , we had a two beds accesible suite and it was huge , only problem the internet connection at room is very slow , but they have a conference room with 3 computers , fax , printer and all you probably need , beds were very comfortable . we definitively will stay in this hotel if we come back to chicago again ( and we will ) . there is a supermarket 1 block west of hotel ( e . grand & n . state ) were you can buy some groceries if need it .
we reserved a " deluxe " room at some additional cost over the " european " room and found it to be very cramped especially for close to $ 400 per night - we've stayed in more spacious rooms for much less cost in paris , london , and new york . there was one chair , no desk or writing space in the room and no other real amenities . on check in we learned that construction on the facade was in progress : no advance warning about this when we booked and no offer of apologies . walls were thin and we heard more than we wanted to hear from our neighbors . our toilet did not work and we were rudely reminded by hotel staff that the lower level restrooms were for guests only . ( we would not be using the lobby restrooms if ours had been operational . ) location is great , but we did not have a good experience with the room or hotel staff and would certainly choose somewhere else on another visit .
we previously stayed in the lovely magnolia dallas for the turkey trot , and it matched the fairmont's special trot price . this year , the magnolia won't do that ( even though we're long - time guests . but that's the next review i'm writing ) . so we contacted the fairmont . who first quoted a rate which was $ 30 higher than the special trot rate they offer on the trot website . then agreed that ok , maybe they did have a lower rate , after we showed them the fairmont promo on the trot page . when we expressed regret for the length of the call ( keep in mind - it was their ignorance of their own pricing that dragged things out ) , the rep said " indeed i do have other customers to help . " well , ok , then consider yourself free to go help them . because we won't be staying at the fairmont . now or ever . rude . and either UNknown or uninformed about major event pricing .
recently stayed here in a room on the 29th floor . the room was spacious , comfortable and was well designed and appointed . wifi internet in the room was a nominal daily charge and worked well . as everyone says , this is a very convenient central location from which to explore new york city . once you get used to ny hotel prices , this seems to be good value for money . the airport buses pick up just across the street but make sure you allow plenty of extra time for the trip because of the terrible nyc traffic ! the subway from central station right next door is hot and noisy but will get you where you want to go without delay . the hotel has tried to go all modern with reception staff standing around all day at " pods " in the lobby instead of the old - fashioned reception desk , but whatever ! they were friendly and did their job efficiently . i can't think of anything negative to say . highly recommended .
we stayed at the homewood for two nights on a quick but lovely trip to chicago . when we arrived , the staff were super friendly and very helpful . we arrived early and our room was not quite ready , but the staff offered to keep our bags for us while we went for lunch . before we could even catch the elevator downstairs ( the reception is on the 6th floor ) , they called us to tell us our room was ready . great people and very easy check - in . the room was spotless and bigger than we expected ! it was perfect and had everything you would need . the best part about the room was the bed ! it was surprisingly the most comfortable bed we've slept in ! great location - very close to magnificent mile and not far from the chicago theatre . a nice walk to navy pier and just steps to the red subway line that takes you to wrigley . we will definitely stay here again - highly recommended .
this hotel was not as nice as i thought it would be . we started out in a room next door to a barking dog . after a few hours , a few phone calls and a trip to the front desk we finally got a different room down the hall , could still hear the dog but at least it wasn't next door . pros : nice size rooms , good desserts in lobby , good location to restaurants and shopping . cons : they allow pets , always a crowd at the restaurant on weekends - make sure if you want to eat there to book in advance . valet is slow . overall we had a good experience once the dog issue was resolved . i was a little dissapointed that the bed wasn't more comfortable . also we stayed on a weekend and it seemed that there was quite a bit of noise outside ( at 3 : 00 am ) . still kind of surprised that pets are allowed , since this is an upscale hotel .
was in baltimore on business . accidently left the inside light on in my car and of course it drained the battery dry ! although i have aaa ; the hotel staff , the garage staff , and even the sales staff went above and beyond ! deborah and eric at the front desk assisted me in finding jumper cables from mike in the sales office and bill and UNknown ( the guys in the garage ) jumped my car for me . i can't thank them enough for going out of their way to help me in a frantic situation . there is nothing worse than being out of town and have issues with your car ! also wanted to thank shannon in the hotel dining room . she assisted me in getting an itemized statement of my meals so i could get reimbursed . the best hotel staff i have ever had the pleasure of meeting . thank you all again for your kindness . i highly recommend the days inn inner harbor to anyone visiting the baltimore area !
we took a train trip to canada this summer . nyc was our first stop . amtrack UNknown the affinia manhattan . i am so glad they did . the hotel is right across the street from the station . it was hot , and i didn't want to walk with all the luggage . we got a nice room , large for nyc with a window view of the city . the ac was great , the bed just right , and the staff friendly . took a cab to st patrick's , walked back , then had a drink in the resturant . again friendly service . on the way back from canada we stayed at the affinia again . we had another nice room . this time we walked to the em state building . this hotel is right in the middle of where you want to be to see the city . you can walk , take the subway , or a cab . the price is good too . make sure you get the lowest rate .
stayed when it was a westin . now it is just an ugly hotel with worn drapes , furniture . check in very slow & one of the two talked on the phone forever ignoring us . stayed i hypo allergenic room and there was dust under all moveable objects . carpets old . music in lobby loud and youth oriented . breeze restaurant was very slow on food delivery although dinner was good . more a price of $ 250 a night this is not a good value . supposed to be non smoking but person next door kept opening slider every 5 minutes for a smoke . went in til late at night . not the sophisticated hotel it was as a westin . also , shopping mall across the street is now gone & instead there is an outdoor mall located on another street , but close . just a macy's , no UNknown . starbucks in the lobby is closed by about 2 : 00 so don't try to get coffee after . won't stay here again .
stayed here for a weekend in june . i paid $ 70 / night through priceline and it was well worth that . i saw that it listed through marriott , expedia , etc . at $ 219 / night . i would of felt ripped off at that price . it is a business travelers hotel . large lobby , lots of UNknown , and standard amenities . the king size bed room was spacious with plenty of room to move around . maid service was on par . buffet breakfast in lobby restaurant was good . hotel staff was friendly and helpful . parking UNknown under convention center was only $ 9 / day and a short walk across the street from the hotel . not many restaurants immediatly nearby . a few block south they start popping up . the trolly stopping by the hotel is a huge plus since it takes you to all the spots like beale for just a dollar . a standard hotel that is worth a good deal but not its standard rates .
stayed for 5 nights in this hotel . good sized clean room , tv with video choice and games if required , large comfortable twin beds , small but perfectly formed bathroom with good shower and for the girls a decent 3 heat hairdryer . don't expect too much of the " kitchen " but there is a coffee maker & 2 mugs , fridge and microwave , but lets face it who wants to eat in in new york . hotel staff very pleasant . also small gift shop attached . only complaints the inevitable , the lifts . it can be very frustrating waiting for the main lifts but you soon learn to become staff and use their lift . no one seems to mind as we rode a couple of times with staff . centrally located within walking distance of times square and many city attractions . all in all a good place to stay ! can recommend pigalle on 8th avenue for breakfast . and do try lindys on 7th avenue for " real new york cheesecake "
after traveling by suv all day with kids , and arriving weary at 11 pm , we found that although i specified to priceline that we had five in our party , our room could not accomodate all of us , by fire law . the compassion and service given to us by mr . miller exceeded any encounter i've ever experienced at a hotel . he quickly found us affordable , adjoining rooms , and UNknown a refund by the reluctant priceline . phew ! as for location , the metro is right there . get a UNknown card from cvs around the corner , on 1st st . for breakfast , take a short walk to the buffet at constitution cafe . the pool , well , it's great for small children . the rooms were immaculate , no bedbugs . our mattress was exceptionally comfortable , but they vary . the views were interesting , not beautiful or quiet , but all of dc seems to be under construction , right now . overall , a good experience .
we are basketball fans and attend the final four every year always looking for a good deal near the action . this was the worst hotel we have ever stayed in . negatives : opened the door to a nice stench , next sat on the bed to tie my shoe and it literally broke to and fell off the frame ! pretty sure overloaded electric outlets without covers being held into the wall by UNknown string are not up to code ? bathroom entertainment , sit on the toilet and watch bugs climb out of the drain . oh and then notice the nice smudges and stains on the towels ? old carpet just sitting in bathroom on top of tile ? pool light pulled out and dangling in pool while being used ? positives : ya can walk down town from there . gay bars just blocks away ( not for me ) great landscaping and view of i35 . i'm really not picky , i speak for the majority from this weekend in saying this place needs UNknown .
the porto vista is really a revamped motel , and not really deserving of a full three stars . mind you , it is not bad , and i would not recommend against staying there , but it just was not as good as i was expecting given many of the prior reviews . first , check - in took a bit long for two reasons : 1 . there was only one person working the desk , and 2 . the software that makes the key was not working correctly . the guy did finally get us keys , but it took a bit . the room itself was o . k . a bit on the old side , and opened up on the courtyard / parking lot , and would be viewed as similar to a 1960's motel . the location is good . right by little italy and near the airport . sadly , their shuttle only runs from 8 - 5 . bottom line , i would neither recommend or warn people off from this hotel .
our family usually stays at one of the bigger hotel chains downtown in seattle and we walk ourselves to exhaustion , but this trip we decided to try an older and closer hotel to the market and boardwalk areas . when we arrived we were checked in right away and bob our concierge was really super friendly and an all around cool guy ! our room was much bigger than some of the older hotels we've stayed at in vancouver , so we were happy with the size right away and the bathroom was pretty large as well . i enjoyed walking the halls and looking at old photos and each floor is decorated uniquely . my only two complaints are the hot water nearly scalding me to death in the shower with no warning , and no little coffee pot in the room , but hey its seattle there are coffee places at every corner . all in all we enjoyed our stay and look forward to returning . thanks for having a little fan in the room as well !
what a pleasant surprise from a property that doesn't have a brand name ( westin , hyatt , marriott , etc . ) in front of it . property is in very good condition and rooms are spacious and clean . our room was on the top floor and had a great view of the boston harbor and logan airport . very young and energetic staff provides great customer service . the free shuttle bus that runs to and from the property to the nearby south station is convenient to those without a car and wanting to catch the " t " into town . warning about the shuttle - it does not run on weekends and while they allow baggage , do not expect help with your bags and you will have to stow them in the bus , not in the bagage compartment . this shuttle is not operated or affiliated with the hotel . kudos also for the free high speed internet access and free desktop terminal in the lobby for guest use . we'd stay there again .
this hotel is centrally located beside penn station , one of the largest subway stations in the city . they have big hotel rooms availible for families . one of my favourite things about this hotel is their pillow menu . it allows you to have the best sleep possible . you will never have to worry about a fire , because the fire station is beside the building . as long as you get a high floor , you will not need to worry about the noise . in the room we had , there was a living room , kitchen , 2 beds and 2 bathrooms . the room was a mix of old an new , because the building itself is new , but there were many contemporary items in the room . the hotel is very safe and they have security late at night . it is only a 5 minute walk to times square and you can get passes to go unlimited amount of times on the subway which is cheaper and more efficient than cabs .
my husband , myself , and our 5 months old daughter traveled to la to see our friends and families . we chose this hotel for its location . the first night the heater was blowing cold air and i called the front desk and asked for portable heater . without apology , she simply said the engineer would come to take a look at it . no one came and didn't bring the heater . next morning , i was in the shower when the water turned cold ! what the . i waited few minutes but still cold ! i came out and spoke with the manager . she was nicer than the previous staff but still annoying . she asks me why i didn't call back for the heater ! how many times do i have to call ? this place is soooo not worth the money and my experience here was horrible . also with the $ 25 parking fee , the price here is just as expensive as other hotels . go to the other ones !
first of all , this hotel is in a convenient location , just off i - 69 and near great shopping . however it was still impossible to find . it's not visible from the road and doesn't have a big sign out front - i drove right by it , twice . the staff at the front desk was short on words and a little cool . all the rooms have an outside entrance . combined with the shady location this felt a bit unsafe . the room itself was dimly lit and smelled bad . everything i had in the room still smells - bags , coat , shoes , etc . the carpet was not clean , i know this from wearing white socks in the room . the bed covers were outdated and ugly . the bathtub was old and soiled , glad i brought flip - flops . i considered not staying there but had reserved it through priceline , so i wouldn't have gotten my money back . this hotel is not a good deal .
we stayed here the night before an 8am from o'hare . the highway access is super easy and the shuttle got us to o'hare quickly . our room was on the tenth floor facing the highway so we had a little noise but nothing too bad . we got in late so we didn't visit the restaurant or bar but they looked decent enough . you're just steps from the cumberland stop on the blue line so there are lots more options easily available . the room was a full suite , which i hadn't expected , so there was plenty of room to move around . i would consider this as a base for a long term visit to the city , at least when the blue line weekend work is done . not a luxury hotel but very comfortable . we booked a ridiculously cheap rate through park sleep fly , which included up to 2 weeks of covered parking and the total was less than if we'd used the o'hare remote lot . we'd definitely stay here again .
this is an older hotel and the rooms are small and inconsistant . the bathrooms are tiny and could use updating . despite these things , the hotel is not a bad choice for the logan circle area given the outrageous prices of most dc hotels . breakfast is served in the basement area and is pleasant enough , especially since it is free . i concur with a previous comment that persons with disabilities are well advised to stay elsewhere . there are steps from the street and no way to avoid them . it makes getting your luggage in or out a bit of a challenge . parking is an additional $ 27 dollars and heaven knows where they park your car . i requested mine , then had breakfast , returned to the room to finish packing , checked out and still waited ten minutes outside for my car . i suppose that it is still cheaper and less hassle than a parking ticket . so long as you know what to expect , not a bad choice .
good value and right beside the yacht harbour , rooms clean and roomy , continental breakfast was fine . nice location but best if you are driving ; however , 5 min walk to stop in north harbour drive and you can get the bus into san diego - 10 min trip to heart of downtown or you can get off 1 stop before at santa fe terminal where you can get trains , buses and trams / trolleys to about everywhere ; certainly all the main attractions . also 5 min walk in opposite to direction to bus stop in UNknown ( spelling not quite right - sorry ) and this bus will take you directly to old town . you can also pick up trolleys from there . opposite hotel is a couple of nice restaurants ; jimmy's tavern and la UNknown pizza . also next door is the holiday inn and they have a nice restaurant too called bayview . we ate at all of them and enjoyed all the meals and the staff were helpful and friendly .
we stayed 2 nites . the staff at this hotel are sincerely nice and friendly . when we arrived , we asked how far a walk to the riverwalk for dinner . though it is only a 10 minute walk , chris the shuttle driver offered to take us so we would get familiar with our surroundings first . he dropped us off , and went the extra mile and picked us up , though they don't usually do a pickup , but he wanted to make sure we didn't get lost coming back in the dark . they have a managers reception tuesday through thursday from 5 - 7pm . UNknown was beer , wine , mango juice , cheese , fruit , nachos & UNknown . the management is very friendly and welcoming . the rooms are very large , extremely clean and quiet . the beds are so comfortable . they offer a hot buffet breakfast along with fruit , yogurt , toast , pastries , cereal etc . i wish all hotels were run like this one .
this hotel is located in an industrial area of questionable UNknown , we booked for two days , on the morning of the second day a knock on the door at 8 : 00am woke us up . it was the housekeeping staff wanting to know if they could clean the room ? i travel frequently and have never received a knock on the door to clean the room at that hour and i never put a " do not disturb sign " on the door . when i spoke to the general manager i was told that the housekeeping staff had no way of knowing the room was occupied . which means this hotel is so poorly managed that they don't know what rooms are occupied or that the manager was not telling the truth . room was poorly lit , carpet stained , and the vent fan in the bathroom did not work and in need of thorough cleaning . i travel to this area a couple of times a year and will not stay at this hotel again .
i stayed at the westin st francis on a short business trip . room UNknown is an adequate , older style room but with a big draw back . it apparently backs onto the elevator banks . i am not a particularly light sleeper but i didn't get much sleep that night . the elevator mechanism noise was a constant during the night and kept waking me up . this room ( and presumably similar rooms on other floors ) is a disgrace for a westin hotel to offer to their regular guests - i am an spg member . i suggest that this hotel's general manager spend a couple of nights in this room and then consider UNknown it from general usage . i expect a higher standard and a dependable level of UNknown from the westin brand . my colleague who was booked in this hotel by the same corporate travel agent , at the same rate , had a very different quality room in the newer part of the hotel . he may return , i will not .
just spent sat . night 11 / 19 at the sheraton while attending the margarita ball . overall it was a UNknown experience , but the management needs to make some adjustments to accommodate such a large crowd . i did not rank service , because while the individuals were exceptional , the mgt . needed to have more people to help . they were understaffed . pros : hotel staff were exceptionally polite & accommodating . nice rooms . plenty of hot water . lots of fast elevators . good bed . cons : no complimentary coffee in the lobby . really ? swimming pool needs to be heated need lots more bell hops / carts for this big of an event . i know that there was a rush of people to check in , but there was a line that took literally over an hour just waiting in line . they were completely sold out of rooms . they need to gear up accordingly with extra staff , & computers , check in people , & bell hops .
i have stayed at the this place for years for a one nighter - the UNknown - as i like to call it , is located across the street from two great music venues - the UNknown and fillmore . you can walk across the street , not drive and party it up . the hotel also takes pets - which is a big bonus - they have a nice courtyard for the animals to play and go to the bathroom . please pick up after your pet : ) . as far as the rates - 125 . 00 with tax - a bit steep for the worn out and dirty rooms . my socks were black from the nasty carpet , the tv was ghetto , the bathroom sink was clogged and it smelled funny in my room . there was a smoking fine if you smoke in the room , and my room smelled like smoke from the get go - so make sure you drink a lot and just pass out if you plan on staying here !
if you like ikea you'll like this hotel . very UNknown , hard to navigate and get around . for a newer hotel i'd expect a more comfortable experience overall . the elevators are only accessible from one side even though they are in the center of the main lobby , you have to go outside to access starbucks or fox grille , if you're walking you have to enter a side almost employee type entrance as they discourage walking up the long drive to the main lobby entrance ( when driving ) . the staff was not very friendly and i would not stay here again . it's tucked at the north end of the convention center and the pedestrian bridge to get over to the gaslamp area is still not complete . you have to walk an extra 1 / 4 mi to get anywhere . the marriott or omni or the older hilton in the gas lamp would be more convenient locations . they also charged $ 15 a day for internet access in your room , ridiculous .
booked this on a hotwire flight hotel combination to attend meetings at the convention center . it was an easy 10min - UNknown ( 0 . UNknown ) walk to the convention center . the area felt safe with lots of foot traffic in the area . the interior is being redone and i had a room with new carpet and paint . room size was small but adequate for 2 people . there was a fridge which was not working but the microwave did work . there was a coffee maker . the alarm clock was not on the bed stand and there is no plug near the bed to recharge a phone - so even if you wanted to use your phone as alarm clock you had to get out of bed to hit the snooze button . the bath room was clean . sheets and towels were clean . breakfast was standard fare with choice of pastries , bagels . muffins , eggs , waffle maker , yogurt . there was a cappucino maker which was actually decent .
had a very nice stay at this hotel . were able to change rooms the 2nd of our 5 nights stay - and ended up at a corner suite overlooking town . great work by the front desk lady . ( the person who gave us the first room , looked like she have had better days . ) had breakfast at 39th floor , its standard - nothing special . but with a nice view . location is good , short walk to times square , and madison square garden is across the street . can recommend this hotel to anyone . my only bad experience is with the driver assistance thing offered . its quite a lot more expencive than the yellow cabs . yes , you know you'll get a car and all that but . did pay some extra supposedly for toll , but i did not see any toll on the weird roads the driver took to jfk . got screwed ? would not recommend that service - but thats not a part of the hotels .
i live in southern indiana and had decided to stay overnight after being in atlanta for the previous week . i have stayed at this hampton inn location before so i was not surprised to find the staff so nice and welcoming . i was surprised though to walk into my room and find rose petals on the floor and bed as well as a beautiful table setting with champagne , champagne glasses and a framed note from my boyfriend proposing to me ! after the initial shock wore off , i learned that kelly and her staff were responsible for helping him pull this off . i have to say , i was very touched by this . it isn't often that one finds people willing to go outside their " job duties " and kelly and her staff did just this and did it very well ! i can't thank them enough ! i will , for sure , continue to stay there when i am in indianapolis ! oh , and i said " yes " ! : )
my daughter and i just got back from 3 nights at the crowne plaza in times square . the best thing i can say about the hotel is that the staff are very friendly and helpful . erica on the front desk was very accommodating in locating the right room for us and robert UNknown really went over and beyond to ensure that we were happy with our room . the room itself was average and could use some freshening up . the beds were comfortable . we were in a concierge room which gave us access to the lounge where they served a very nice breakfast and good afternoon snacks . if you are going to ny for shows and shopping the location cannot be beat . my biggest complaint is the gym and health club . it is a new york sports club and the sauna and shower area was filthy . personally , i prefer a more upscale hotel such as the the barclay , however , for the price , this hotel was worth the money spent .
we stayed here on a staycation , booked it through a random deal website and were generally happy with our stay . the location is pretty much the best in the city , right in the heart of the magnificent mile . while nice and comfortable , the hotel is sort of unremarkable once inside . the check - in is on the 3rd floor , and you have to stop there every time you come in the building to reach the elevators to the rooms . the room itself was a little small for a suite , but definitely quite spacious for a standard room . the wet bar was a nice touch . the decor was a little dated / generic . didn't use the pool because it was small and filled with kids and sort of unappealing generally . service was always friendly . the restaurant is very nice ; the chef even gave us a tour of the meat - hanging room . overall , a very solid hotel but perhaps lacking that " wow factor . "
i was surprised not to be able to completely love the waldorf . my company gets a great rate and a courtesy upgrade landed me a junior suite , so i had an incredible amount of space for a ny hotel - in fact , the room was so large that the furniture felt sparse ! the bathroom was huge and luxurious with lovely bath products , everything was clean and well lit , the bed linens and the view were great , and the bed was super - comfy . that said , the waldorf clearly has seen better days . the hall i was on had a musty odor and badly UNknown and patched walls , and worn carpet . all of the hotel seemed to need refreshing , being a bit faded and down at the heels . i wouldn't pay a lot of money for it because it's no four seasons , but if you can get a good rate , stay here for a glimpse of the past and for solid comfort and the great location .
my husband and i had tickets to see a comedian in detroit , so we decided to spend the night at the motorcity casino hotel with our teenage sons . we were greeted at the valet parking by a very friendly and helpful employee who gave us a lot of great tips about the hotel and local area , including using the taxi service rather than our vehicle because it was cheaper than parking and more efficient . the hotel is very nice and our room was elegant ; the beds were extremely comfortable and the bathroom was spacious . the only issues we had was that the hotel was experiencing technical problems with renting movies , so we had to wait several hours to rent one . the other problem was that a few intoxicated guests decided to have an argument in the hallway at 3 a . m . for about 20 minutes until security came and told them to be quiet . other than that , very nice stay and we would probably visit again in the future .
nice hotel but not sure about the check in , check out . only two people working and a lot of lines and frustrations waiting for bags etc . UNknown was passionate and enthusiastic with her sales pitch , very charming upon check in . nice , comfortable rooms / beds , great location . still working out the bugs . we were looking forward to the coffee and pastries last sunday morning . groovy coffee machine was broken and no pastries left . they said they weren't expecting so many people . after 2 months you would think they would have that one down . waited 45 minutes , still no pastries . went to room , packed up , went back down and they said they had received more but they were all gone . i think if you offer and advertise this service . you should have more than enough . you are competing with hotels like the giraffe that have free wine with the cheese and free breakfast for the same rate and they never run out .
i've stayed here a couple of times and in the last stay was put in room 804 . it is literally a postage stamp of a room - does not reflect the quality of other rooms in this hotel at all . right behind the elevator too , so you get to hear the UNknown of air as the cars go by . definitely seek a change if you have a room ending in " 4 " . this was unusual as i am part of their loyalty program , stay in their hotels all over the country with some frequency , and am usually a big fan . this demonstrates the UNknown in rooms with boutique hotels , and it is worth sharing this sort of info with other travelers . frankly , 804 should not really be a guest room in this hotel - and definitely not at the " full " rate they charged . if i got it a second time , without a steep discount , i would never choose to stay at the monaco again .
i was very impressed by this hotel . we had a discounted room but i was expecting the typical " squeeze every dime out of the traveler " mentality of a UNknown hotel . not so . very professional place . pros : location location location . amazing . stones throw from chinatown and north beach , cable cars to fisherman's wharf are easy to walk to . the only semi - difficult tourist destination is golden gate park . staff . the concierge was very very helpful . surprisingly so . check - in staff etc were also efficient and friendly . we had an amazing room with a beautiful view . free wi - fi and a sweet fitness center with nice equipment . cons : coffee shop turned into a wine bar at like 2 pm .  .  . i wanted an afternoon coffee ! didn't sample the hotel restaurants . parking is ridiculous but we left the car at home . other than that , thanks for making our vacation special .  .  .
i stayed here for six nights while attending a conference at the convention center . the hotel is right around the corner . my suite was beautiful , with a well equipped kitchen . everything was spotless and cleaned perfectly every day ( even my dirty dishes : ) . the shower with its different jets was amazing ! this is a suite hotel with limited front desk service . my check in ( late at night ) was perfect , but they would not call me a cab when i asked them to ( told me to go find one in the street ) . during checkout the person at the front desk was on the phone taking a reservation from somebody else . after spending $ at this hotel i would have hoped for a bit more personal attention . i would stay here again only for the beautiful suites and convenient location . there is a lot of construction in the area . i walked back to the hotel by myself late at night and always felt safe .
took a long weekend trip in november 2003 . the level of service was as expected though i thought that robert at the concierge desk was in a league of his own , whith nothing posing a problem to him . the irish barman had the knack of being very friendly without being UNknown . beds and pillows were . well . they were four seasons . what more can i say ? i could only find one fault and it is one that suprised me . the bar area is tiny for a hotel this size . it is popular with local drinkers and as a result residents can be refused entry because of lack of space . i am sure that it will be said that if the bar were enlarged that the athmosphere would be lost but i am aware of many establishments with bars at least three times the size that are still able to hold a good athmosphere . this having been said the hotel is top class and the location could not be more central .
we had just flown transatlantic and chose the omni for our first night with a view to picking up our rental car after a good night's sleep . we used the UNknown shuttle service ( book online for discount ) which took us to the hotel door . think it was our first time in an omni and based on this stay it won't be our last - it's a fine hotel . we paid a premium for a high floor which probably wasn't worth it - the view to the south wasn't inspiring ! we also didn't eat or drink in the hotel ( since we wanted to use our only time in fort UNknown to see the stockyards ) but the restaurant and bar each looked inviting and we were sorry that we hadn't availed . the room was well equipped and the bed comfortable . in the morning we used the starbuck's in the lobby for a swift coffee and muffin before getting a shuttle back to the airport . a lightning but memorable visit to fort worth !
my stay at the hyatt was exactly what i expected : a comfortable , clean room in an unexciting , huge business hotel . fortunately i had read tripadvisor , so knew to avoid the railroad - view rooms . the hotel also honored my request to be away from the ice machine , elevator , atrium , etc . my room was very remote but completely quiet ! ( an aside : whoever came up with the atrium design should be made to sleep near one . the noise is terrible . ) the room was attractive , though the furniture was a tad tired and there was a stain on the carpet . the bathroom was nicely appointed , and the bed was wonderful . the only meal i had at the hotel was a room - service breakfast . the eggs , bacon , potatoes , etc . were delicious , but oddly UNknown with asparagus . whatever ! it was delivered hot and on time . i would return , but probably would try the adolphus first .
i stayed here for two nights on business . the internet connection set off every security alarm my computer has , the checkin fellow treated me like i was a thief off the street because the address on my drivers license didn't match the one in his computer , and also helped himself to the breakfast in the morning , eating all the scrambled eggs without replacing them . the room itself was fine , but the door wouldn't close without an active action on my part . most hotels have self closing doors these days , and this wouldn't even be worth mentioning if i wasn't already down on this place . the coup de grace was waking up at 4 : 30am to take a shower before my flight out , only to find both the toilet and tub backed up ( standing , dirty , water had come up through the tub drain ) . the only nice thing i can say is that it is very close to downtown . in short , though , stay away .
i recently took my granddaughter to nyc for her first time and it was her choice to stay at the alex hotel . we loved it ! the staff could not have been better in any aspect , and took care of each of our needs quickly and efficiently . they graciously upgraded us to a suite and the added space , full kitchen , and spa bathroom were nicely appointed . UNknown candies in the room and warm chocolate chip cookies and milk from room service were also a hit ( especially to a 7 year old ) . we were 2 blocks from grand central station ( subway and train service ) and from the united nations , and taxis were readily available to take us where we needed to go . the best part was that it was quiet ( a true luxury in nyc ) and the room was exceedingly comfortable . this is a boutique hotel and appears to have an international clientele . there is also a very nice organic market just down the street .
i stayed here with a conference group in mid september and found it to be very average . yes it is ornate and the entry is grand etc but when i found out what the room cost was , over $ 1 , 000 per night ( i didn't actually pay as it was part of the conference UNknown ) i nearly passed out . to say it is not worth half the money is no exaggeration . it was quite possibly the smallest hotel room i have ever been in to the point where the cupboard doors did not open fully as they hit against the bed ! we also found the conceirge generally aloof and unhelpful and on the day of our departure there was a stuff up with all our luggage of mammoth proportions . sorry but that is unacceptable from a supposed world class hotel . from here i moved to the marriott marquis after the conference and found it to be a far superior hotel at almost half the price . would never stay here again .
we got there at 10 : 30pm . it was packed ! with that said , they must be doing something right ! we stood in a short line to check in and i overheard the desk clerk say " its a good thing you had reservations " . i too had reservations thank goodness ! the rooms were tidy , large and roomy , the bathroom was very clean and neat . it had the basic essentials and the linens were indeed fresh and clean , i inspected them well . the tv was great and the remote worked fine . no coffee in the room but they did in the lobby . my only dissatisfaction was that since it was a saturday night , it appears that there was a group of late UNknown staying across the hall from me and a guy decided to have his cell phone conversation right in front of my door . i just nicely stuck my nose out the door and asked for some peace and he was nice and complied and left .
our stay in san diego was enhanced by our accommodations . the california suites hotel is conviently located near a freeway enterance . the room was clean and well maintained . it was also very quiet despite the close proximity to the freeway , with all rooms opening onto a beautifully maintained and landscaped courtyard . it offered all of the amenities that we look for when away from home . we had a refigerator , microwave , an iron & ironing board and on site laundry facilities . it also had a mini kitchen with a two burner stove . there is ample free parking and access to the central courtyard is through locked gates . the staff was curtious , well informed and friendly . the continental breakfast that was UNknown in the room rate provided fresh hot coffee , fruit juices and a good variety of fresh fruit , breads , cereals and pastries . my only complaint would be that there is no coffee available on site after the breakfast closes down at 9 : 00 am .
this was our second time staying at the sheraton hotel and towers in chicago . inside and outside of the hotel were just as nice and clean as our first stay . the staff were very friendly , helpful , and accomdating . the view was gorgeous , just as it was during our first visit two years ago . the room was clean , comfortable , and they encourage being green - reuse your towels : ) the location is fantastic to walk places in the loop area . we walked to navy pier and if it weren't for rain on our first night , we would have walked to the restaurant about 1 mile away for dinner . the price for the room was good and with aaa there are discounts available . i have called both times we stayed to see if there are any specials going on and the reservation person has been very pleasant and able to assist with the best prices . overall it was a wonderful stay and we would definately do it again .
i had stayed here a few years ago and since have stayed in several fairmonts . this is not in the league with the others . it's dated , has small bathrooms and most importantly some on staff that don't measure up . when coming back from dinner and preparing to take a shower i noticed there was no laundry bag which is what i use for dirty clothes . i called the front desk and spoke to UNknown . i told him i was getting ready for bed , would be up early and wanted to know how long for a laundry bag to get there . no big deal that it wasn't there but i wanted to know if i could get one before i went to sleep . he told me 10 minutes . 30 minutes later when i called down and told him it hadn't arrived and there was no need to send ; he giggled . no apology ; just a giggle . so . if you're looking for a real fairmont this isn't the place .
the hotel was well kept and had very nice furnishings . the rooms were as described and met the needs of my visit . the hotel location is convenient to cosi , the palace theatre , good for a stroll on the UNknown mile . all within walking distance . we were given complimentary breakfast which the food was fair , but slightly bland . the staff preparing the food in the breakfast restaurant area were quite pleasant to encounter ( smiling , asking about food quality , etc ) , however i wish i could say the same for the wait staff including the host & hostess . the wait staff as well as host / hostess were not friendly , didn't smile , were not courteous in the least . my first thought was " these folks must really hate their job " . it was disappointing considering what wonderful and helpful staff that were present in most every other area of this location would i stay there again ? absolutely but next time i will seek breakfast elsewhere .
my room was very nice , the bed was comfortable . the view was a brick wall which was very disappointing especially because i am a hilton diamond member . i booked thi hotel from our corporate web site so i wasn't aware of the parking situation . there is only valet parking which is $ 24 . 00 and then of course you tip them . i did not have any issues with the elevator . there are actually two elevators there not just one like another reviewer said . there is one in the front and one in the back , i used the one in the front and it was fine . i stayed two nights and the location is great . good restaurants and shopping close by . i was very disappointed with the breakfast . nothing great . gnats by the fruit , " hot " food was not hot at all . i like . for the amount of money for the room , i would have expected more of a variety and hot food .
i stayed just one night and was very happy with the accomodations . the room was small but adequate and wifi was great . quiet and cozy . close to several great restaurants including serafina which has outstanding food at a moderate price . the restaurant on site was fine for breakfast and cost was okay . there were snacks in the lobby which was a nice touch . i drove into philly so i had to park my car around the block in a parking garage with a reduced rate ( hotel discounts the ticket when you check in ) . no valet and no on - street unloading in front of hotel . i had to call the hotel while driving around the block to determine where the parking garage was located . check in was fast at kiosks ( if you prefer to waiting in line , they set up like boarding pass kiosks in the airport ) . staff was pleasant and helpful . if i go to philadelphia again , i will stay at this hotel .
i traveled here for a work conference at the convention center . for me , westin's are comfortably predictable . i even enjoy their signature scent . this was a great location because i was able to valet my car and not need it again for 3days . i only had one mishap with room service but they took care of the issue very quickly . the pool is very intimate but i wasn't there to swim . there's too much to explore outside of the hotel . we dined one night at the hotel restaurant , zocca which was very good . the gym was a perfect size with around 8 pieces of equipment . the coffee nook is a little hidden but they replicated a good starbucks pumpkin spice latte . if you stay here , be sure to request a riverview room not far from the elevators . if they put you at the end of the hall , it's a long walk , especially if you've been on your feet all day sightseeing or working a conference .
figured since this was a new hilton it would be nice , but it's pretty mediocre ( learned that while it is new as a hilton , it has been two other hotels prior to opening this year as a hilton ) . the rooms are typically small for new york . liked the bathroom ( other than the cheap towels ) and the keurig coffee maker , however the bed was awful - back still hurts . clearly these are cheap mattresses from whatever hotel this was before . biggest issue was the staff - either indifferent , incompetent , or rude - though did have a drink in the bar and the waitress up there was very good / nice . i'm a hilton diamond member , so have higher expectations - i typically am cautious about older hiltons - some are great ( like the one in UNknown ) , but some are just awful - have been staying a lot at starwood hotels of late and a hilton stay makes me appreciate starwood even more for their consistency
my husband and i just celebrated his 50th birthday in nyc last week . we stayed at the hotel elysee and it was the absolute perfect choice . our service could not have been better and the hotel was extremely clean and charming . i had spent weeks trying to decide where to stay and i am so glad we stayed here . our favorite part was the terrace we had on the 14th floor . we actually enjoyed getting back to our room in the evenings and sitting out on the terrace and putting our tired feet up ! the breakfast and afternoon wine / cheese is a nice addition and is served and hosted so well by the staff . the location is great and we enjoyed being away from all of the noise . the staff was very attentive to the fact we were celebrating a birthday , and even brought a thoughtful gift to the room . i applaud this hotel for their personal service and the warmth and friendliness . truly a gem in the city !
chelsea pines inn is , hands down , the nicest hotel i've stayed at , since i moved out of the new york area four years ago . i've stayed at a number of places , since my move - and chelsea pines inn was the one that felt like home - sophisticated , like the city itself , with a wonderful sense of style and humor in its decor ( b movie stars ) , an incredibly friendly staff , a clean quiet room , a terrific range of breakfast choices , a great little garden in back for that first coffee of the day . i'm a UNknown , and was in town to see a performance of a play of mine - and chelsea pines even went to the trouble of UNknown my play , in their daily in - house newsletter . close to subways , great restaurants , the wonderful new high line park - i couldn't have asked for a nicer place to stay . hope to stay there again , and highly recommend it .
we visit la twice a year ( family and fun ) we usually use amex concierge for our hotel bookings but for some reason decided to book it ourselves using trip - advisor . the location is good the hotel is very simple clean with a twist . the amenities were good , however the pillows smelled as if they were not washed and when i sent them back the front desk were so rude and so inhospitable showing no concern even when i said i will have to change hotels ! the staff never say hello and really as if they were forced to work ! where is hospitality ? yea the UNknown were great but that is not enough . the front desk rang us at 11 : 30 pm waking up my little boy with complain that we were making noise ! absolutely unacceptable in a so called 4 stars hotel . the ac is 100 years old too noisy . we are moving today to our favorite sunset hotel and never again stay at the farmers daughter .
my family and i stayed at the ritz for 2 nights on a weekend . the hotel is in a beautiful location , battery park . on the weekend it was nice and quiet and relaxing , we are used to staying uptown . the doormen were very helpful and checkin was easy . we had a weekend plan so we were able to get breakfast for free . the rooms are great , large and the beds were very comfortable . we requested a view of the statue of liberty and ellis island , which was great ! the room provided a telescope so we were able to see the statue of liberty up close . every night they pulled down our beds for us , put on classic music and gave us chocolates . the bathroom too was spacious . it was very quiet at night we did not hear a thing . we rented an in room movie which was also a lot of fun . the hotel is great and i hope to go back one day .
if this is what ramada has become , then i will have to cross the hotel chain of my 'hotel' list . this is a neighborhood motel at best . the motel had a nasty carpet , missing hardware on the furniture , bathroom tiles broken / missing , etc . everything you would expect from a $ 35 / night motel out of the travelers magazines you find in ihop and such . and if that was the price , i am good to go . if you are seeing a show at the UNknown , it's tops . one block to the right , the show . 1 / 2 block to the left , great korean bbq before the show . makes a great eve . but the motel itself needs some solid work to call itself a ramada or hotel . if they ever decide to upgrade and figure it all out , it's a grand stop for the UNknown experience . if they don't , i will begin the search for an alternative in the hood .
efficiency . not a concept that i would expect to be foreign to the hotel industry . everything was a pain from first pulling into the valet ( valet tried to drive off while husband was locking his bike to rack ) , checking in ( only one person at desk and long line ) , room service ( ordered a bottle of wine and they didn't even bring so much as a water glass much less wine glasses ) , and even leaving took forever to get the car . staff was not friendly at all with the exception of the manager who was running circles around her staff the entire time . we booked two rooms since we were traveling with two teenage boys . one room was fine , but the other smelled like smoke even though it was marked non - smoking . the noise level was horrible most of the night - we could hear everyone on the street outside and in the lobby down below . we were extremely disappointed especially for a hilton hotel .
booked this hotel through a discount price website which was advertised as a three - star hotel . it is not , in fact , it should be condemned . there was so much mold growing on the shower tile that i would not let my three year old grandson take a bath in the tub . the drapes were stained and had holes in them . i am sure the bathroom floor had not been mopped in months . while using the washer in the hotel , a couple came in wanting to wash all of their clothes because they had found bed bugs in their room . ( we looked and did not find any in our room . ) three of the pools in the water park were out of order during our stay , including the kiddie pool which meant that my grandson had no place to swim . when we asked about a refund or reduction in the admission price , we were told no . take my advice , do not book in this hotel !
the draw for this hotel is that it is connected to a terrific gym . the gym is huge and has a basketball court , weights galore , and lots of treadmills and cycles , UNknown , etc . the property is an historic building in a great location . my third positive - and it's another key one - is that the staff is superb . many have worked at the hotel more than 20 or 25 years and have UNknown the test of time ( and lots of tough customers ) . the staff is always friendly , always competent , and generally quite prompt . fourth it is always clean , never had an issue - and i've stayed many times . some of the rooms have been updated in the last year to a modern finish . the only issue i have with that is that the lighting is dark . so if you are on business travel and need to read , ask for an extra bright lamp . my go - to hotel in philadelphia .
the hotel was pleasant enough but the limited elevator capacity makes for a tough time getting up and down during peak hours of our convention . the maid service was also not able to accomodate us daily because the hotel was at capacity . so , out of six nights , two we did not receive maid service . and we were not told in advance . we just walked into our room after a long work day and it was a mess . mostly i write this to tell you to beware of the gift shop manager . he is creepy and sneaky . i purchased an item for 12 . 99 and he rang it up for 14 . 99 . when i questioned him he corrected it and then the total came out to 14 . 09 yet when he ran my credit card he ran it for 14 . 96 . i guess the gift shop is operated separately from the hotel but it is a poor reflection on them when its time to write a review .
please don't let the outside fool you - the rooms are completely redone on the inside . all new furniture , fixtures , tv , frig etc . there is free dsl and the important part is that it works ( and at a good rate ) ! the previous 3 hotels we stayed at claimed to have free hi - speed internet but for various reasons of their own fault - none of them worked ! i was so worried after having a horrible experience the previous night at a travelodge in reno . once i opened the door there was a huge sigh of relief ! i redeemed UNknown points for this room so it was free - again i thought we might be pushed into a sub - par room because of that but we weren't . they are still renovating - but it appears to be in more of a remodel phase than construction - we never heard any noise from them working . the managers and staff were very friendly - i'd definitely stay here again .
when we found a great deal via travelzoo for labor day weekend , we UNknown on 2 rooms for our family . turns out it was not just a nice hotel but the staff was super friendly and the location was quite convenient to navy pier , millenium and grant parks , the magnificent mile , and plenty of other sites that we walked to during our holiday stay . we had asked for rooms near each other on the same floor but ended up getting adjoining rooms so that was awesome . we ate in the main lobby restaurant a couple of times in the morning ( for convenience more than anything else ) and though it was just a bit pricey the food was terrific and the breakfast buffet plentiful and quite tasty . my only nit - pick is the $ 13 / day for internet - c'mon folks , that's a bit absurd ! thank goodness the parking was free as part of our booking . i would stay here again in a heartbeat . great experience .
i booked 2 nights at this hotel on a recent business trip before reading the reviews on this site . naturally , i was very skeptical when i arrived , but during the short stay i really grew to like this hotel . pros : great location , friendly and helpful staff ( bell hop , front desk , phone operator ) . comfortable bed and furniture . very nice room decoration . everything worked . super bath products ( crabtree & evelyn ) , nice pool , spa , saunas and fitness room ( surcharge for the latter ) . cons : some rooms are a bit small ( mine was ) and as one hotel employee told me ; the hotel is not known for its great room views . i was looking at a fire escape . surcharge for the internet connection ; a common anger point for me when staying in upscale hotels . room service very expensive . i would stay here again without any worries and recommend the hotel for business as well as pleasure .
this property is nice . it isn't the newest hotel on the block but it has a nice , mature , well - established , and well - run feel . the bathrooms are the best feature : separate shower and tub , toilet in a separate wc area , very large , very comfortable and spa - like . the cleaning service in the rooms could be a bit more detail - oriented : there were dried water rings on the table and desk of my room , which indicated to me that the surfaces weren't being wiped down . this is kind of gross , but since i wasn't eating in my room it didn't bother me too much . overall it is a decent stay , and i would stay there again . also , the front desk staff was very helpful in telling me that i could avoid a wi - fi charge if i joined their loyalty program . i did this , called the front desk , and they took the charges off my bill .
1st - i never really trust reviews all the time . i am not an employee or friend or have any connection to this hotel . this hotel is not the largest or the fanciest in nyc . but it is an older hotel that is clean , under some updating when we stayed with super nice staff . the room for ny was spacious with a flat screen tv and a place for coffee and tea in the am . this was a very good location to be in from a sightseeing perspective . we went for a broadway show opening . i had the concierge get us a car so we would be sure to make dinner on time . accidently , i left tickets for myself and 100 others in the car when we got to the restaurant . with UNknown help , the driver brought them back pretty quickly and all went well . it could have been a disaster ! thanks to larry for arranging the car and then saving me from my own dumb mistake .
we spent three nights here over the fourth of july weekend . service was good , especially so in the restaurant . the room was clean , although some finishes are showing a bit of wear already . the bathroom lighting is woefully inadequate for applying makeup ; this dark lighting / dark tile design seems to be the hot ticket in hotel decor lately . the hotel was super quiet and the air conditioning worked beautifully w / o all the racket of those old wall units . the bed was firm for sure , but we slept like UNknown . the location was great - no crowded sidewalks , close to the water , and steps from buses and the subway . if you have stayed in any other hotels in nyc , you will be astounded at the room size at the andaz - our last room in mid - town would fit in our andaz room three times . we received an excellent rate w / a package deal and we would most certainly stay here again .
i was so disappointed with my stay at this hotel . the hotel was a lot bigger than i expected and the rooms were really dated . i do not know if they are planning on redecorating this place soon but it really needs it . the bathroom gives the impression that they need a really good clean and they possibly would not look so dated . the grounds of the hotel are nice but really nothing special and i guess that is the same impression of the hotel overall . the staff are very friendly but if you are looking for somewhere to stay that has a bit of sparkle that will remain in your memory for good reasons this place is not it . you will only be left with the bad memories of not getting any sleep because the beds are hard and the sheets feel dirty not to mention the noise of the air conditioning and wondering why you have spent this amount of money on a hotel that is akin to a poorly maintained roadside motel .
here for a conference . i was given a room directly above the sliding doors of the " tower " lobby and also next to the door for the stairs . the only way i could drown out the noise of the doors sliding open and closed , people running up and down the stairs slamming the door each way , and people generally being loud in the area in front of the doors was to have the ac or fan on high all the time . the room was small but fairly clean . i did find a long black hair in the fold of one of the bath towels and there was hair on the bathroom floor . we did have a 5 . 6 earthquake during the stay and the room did rock and roll . but no damage . the friendliest staff was a waiter in the resturant . he was an exceptional man . the beach and resort aspects of the hotel were very nice . the hotel is old but seems to be wearing well .
we came for a little romantic get away . as soon as we arrived there was clearly no place to park . the entrance was packed with 2 rows of cars and trucks on the left and a packed row on the right . i drove through once and had to circle back around and finally just stopped in the narrow pathway in front and had to block everything . i had to checkin before they told me the parking is 2 blocks away on the top two floors of a private parking garage , but it was full ! we booked a room for two nights and we wouldve left after the first night and stayed UNknown else , but the hotel has a $ 100 charge if you leave before your reserved stay was up . obviously many other guests leave and go elswhere for the hotel to UNknown you for leaving early ! the room was ok . for a hilton property it's below par . the tv is so old the color and hues are all off .
i got this hotel through delta because of a missed flight and if you are ever in memphis , stay away from this hotel . i have stayed in many hotels in my lifetime and this is by far the worst one i have ever been in . the main issues with the hotel were : 1 . rooms smelled terrible , so bad that i only slept 2 hours and came to the airport 4 hours early just to get out of the nasty smell ! 2 . the bathrooms were filled with scum and hair all over the sinks and shower . 3 . room service took almost an hour and a half to get and there was no selection of anything remotely healthy on the menu . 4 . when turning on the heating unit , smoke came out and smelled like the room was about to catch on fire . i am sure that i can tell you about many other things , but i dont want to waste anymore time on this filth of a place !
i was a little hesitant to stay at the garden inn in downtown washington dc . there are a lot of really nice hotels in dc and i wasn't sure how this would stand up . but the service that we recieved at the hilton garden inn was above and beyond . UNknown at the front desk is a standout among an amazing staff . he made my kids feel welcome and was super helpful with directions and getting us to where we wanted to be . he even got us free entry to one of the museums that you have to pay for when he called over to see if they had any discounts available for us , it was awesome . the fact that you are 3 blocks from the white house and right across the street from the metro make this an ideal location for site seeing in dc . the rooms were clean and quiet and the dining options around the hotel were pretty good . i would highly recommend this hotel for families traveling with children .
we stayed five nights at the travel inn and found it to be a good value . to be sure , it's not luxurious , but our room was fine for three people ( two adults and a teenager . ) we stayed in a room facing 42nd st , so there was some street noise . you might want to ask for one of the rooms that overlook the pool - they seemed more peaceful . the location is pretty good - three long blocks to times square and near the incredible collection of restaurants that line 9th avenue from 42nd street north for many blocks . also , there's a nice little deli right next door and a grocery store a block or so away . parking is free - such a deal - in the attached garage , but it's tight . we struggled to jam the car into a space . of course , we never had to move it again , so that really wasn't a big problem . i'd stay at the travel inn again .
was in ft worth for three nights at a conference . the hilton i stayed at last year was booked so i got the sheraton . not great , but not bad . an average stay . check in was fast an easy . the rooms were pretty standard in size but very well appointed . free wi - fi was a definite plus . it was very close to the convention center but you had to walk an extra 2 - 3 blocks to get " down town " . this property is more on the fringe . the staff was very helpful and attentive . the only complaint that i have is the noise . i should not be able to hear the toilet flush and shower from neighboring rooms . the room is very poorly insulated for sound . you could hear everything in the hallways and near by rooms . it was a little overpriced at $ 169 per night . frankly i'd rather have had the hilton but i'd stay here again without too much reservation .
we stayed in this " hotel " in october 05 , following a recommendation from our travel agent ? i agree with other travellers regarding the position of the hotel . it really is in the red light district . homeless people in the streets on both sides of the hotel . most nights there was screaming and yelling in the streets . the doors are locked with cages each night . we spoke to a french couple who were booked to stay a few nights , they said they were re - booking to another hotel straight away , as they were " very afraid " . when we arrived we were greeted by a porter who had holes in the knees of his trousers and who looked like UNknown from faulty towers . the stay definately had its UNknown side , we were travelling with my sister and her husband . but i definatley would never stay there just as a couple or worse as a single . be very afraid - take my advice book the ymca instead !
i'm an experienced business traveler traveling with family on this occassion . my niece is starting college downtown in the fall so selected this location to be in the neighborhood she'll be in although i was nervous about the location - on the fringe of a UNknown neighborhood - but the hotel has excellent security both in and out as well as in the parking facility . we felt perfectly comfortable throughout our stay . the hotel is well equipped for both the business traveler - plenty of staff , easy access to the business center , yet extremely accommodating to the tourist . rooms are smallish fitting a UNknown hotel , but well appointed and very comfortable . there is a starbucks in the lobby of the hotel but plenty of other coffee and all kinds of dining options nearby . it is an easy walk to union square and all of the shopping there as well as the powell street cable cars . i'd return on business and will return as a tourist as we found an apartment nearby !
don't believe the other negative reviews . i am picky , and have stayed at a great many nice hotels across the us and europe . no musty smells or bad paint from what i saw , and i have strong doubts about how cash could disappear from a locked safe ( as mentioned in one of those bad reviews ) . unless you are looking for the ritz or four seasons , this is the place to stay ! the adagio is a great hotel , excellent value - clean and comfortable and modern ( without being too stark ) . great location too , just a few blocks from union square . the only downside was a somewhat slow valet service and inconsistent availability with doormen and bellhops . best hotel in this price range ( by far ) that i have stayed at in san francisco , and given the clift ( half a block away ) is twice as much , for a much smaller ( basic ) room , i may never stay anywhere else again !
i am going to make this post brief . we stayed at this hotel one night - march 25 , 2012 . this hotel is average and is great for using when flying into or out of george bush . the room was simple and dull , but clean . positives : the hotel offers free parking and shuttle - you can leave your car at the hotel while you are out of town . free water and starbucks coffee packages were in the room . the airport shuttle drives are nice and timely . the guy that checked us in was extremely professional and had our paperwork and keys already ready before we made it to the desk . cons : the bathroom was renovated , but the tub shower combination was old and moldy . the front desk person ( a woman ) in the early am was extremely rude when we ask her about the location of the shuttle . she ignored our questions , pretended not see us at first , and continued to read a magazine .
beautiful chic hotel , but for the gaslamp - an area that is supposed to be " hopping " - this trip was a snooze . the hotel itself charged us " extra " . nearly $ 200 " extra " and claimed to release these funds at check in ( mind you , i was already charged an initial deposit ! and i am still not sure what the " extra " UNknown were for . ) when the staffer felt like she had sufficiently explained the charges to me , i asked if i could read her my statement which UNknown with hers , and i was placed on hold for about 10 minutes . the high - pitched " so sorry about that " . didn't help . the room had a fly in it upon check in and the shower took a full 5 minutes to warm up - all i wanted to do was take a hot shower after a long flight . not worth the money . or the locale ! this place was dead .
we got a good rate ( $ 150 / night ) through expedia . the hotel was very nice , with interesting public areas as well as nicely appointed rooms . our double queen room was a bit on the small side , but comfortable overall . the bed was a bit firm for my liking , but comfortable . noise from the hallway was the biggest downside - sound insulation seemed quite poor . staff were very friendly . the wine reception was a nice bonus . location for the metro and dining was great . breakfast at the attached resturant was good but ( not surprisingly ) pricey . new york times daily was a plus . on the last morning of our 3 - day stay , there was no hot water in the shower . when brough to the hotel's attention , all we got was a " we're sorry - we have a problem for the whole hotel " , which was disappointing . overall experience was good with the exception of the glitches noted above .
my boyfriend and i stayed here for 5 nights , it was lovely . room was a decent size , clean and adequate . we found all the staff lovely and very helpful . it is in such a great location . we made a UNknown that we weren't going to use the subway and that we were going to walk everywhere in manhatten . we managed it . empire state really close . it's a 10 - 15 walk to time square and madison square garden . we were so tired out one night , felt comfortable enough to have a night in our room , we took advantage of the free sky tv and watched a movie . another plus . we found a fab diner where we ate breakie everyday . turn left out of hotel , then left at cnr onto lexington ave , up 3 or 4 blocks diner on the corner . staff are lovely and food is fantastic . recommend UNknown waffles ! when i go back to new york i'll stay here again .
my husband and i stayed at the maxwell for several days and loved pretty much everything about it . the hotel itself was handsome , serene , and very comfortable ; the service was low key and excellent . we spent several very fun days exploring the neighborhood , on foot and on bikes , which are available for loan in the lobby . we took a couple of amazing morning runs through the sculpture garden and on the walking trail by the sound , about half a mile to the west of the hotel . on our first morning , we had breakfast at citizen coffee , which is a few blocks east of the maxwell , and enjoyed it so much we went back every morning for the rest of our stay . and we fell head over heels in love with the international fountain in seattle center - so fun to watch . i spent another night there a few months ago with my daughter - another good experience . i'd definitely stay there again in the future .
very nice hotel , not too big . very clean rooms , nice fluffy towels , new carpeting and hallway furniture appears to be recently updated . near the inner harbor area . nice breakfast and cocktail hour in the cloud lounge on the 12th floor with a view of the harbor . the breakfast was complete with an entree and coffee and juices , fruit and cereal or baked goods and freshly made waffles . the cocktail hour included wine , beer , juices , and cheeses and dip , chips and fresh vegetables and salad . valet parking only but the hotel is within walking distance of many attractions including the aquarium , science museum , washington monument , many museums , the basilica of the national shrine , little italy and many shopping areas and restaurants . the staff were very helpful especially about places to dine . comfortable shoes are recommended for walking around the harbor and there are walking tours . the visitor center is at the inner harbor . would stay again at this hotel .
spent the weekend at the watertown and were pleasantly surprised with our experience . we had a studio suite with a great view of mount ranier . the room was spacious , clean and filled with amenities . we were very happy with the room . they do offer complimentary breakfast every morning that includes , beverages , eggs , bacon , bagels , muffins , yogurt , fruit and cereal . there is free underground parking which is a value in itself in seattle . there are free bikes and a complimentary wine tasting every night that we did not have a chance to enjoy either . this hotel is a value compared to staying downtown seattle and actually is a very convenient location . they have a small little store by the front desk if you need a beverage or snack , they also provide coffee and coffe maker and popcorn with a microwave in the rooms . we were thrilled with our stay here and will stay here next time we come to seattle . an incredible find !
stayed for 4 nights in a sky view corner studio with bedroom area , lounge area , 2 plasma tvs , ipod dock , computer ( wifi extra ) and coffee machine . the external walls of the room were glass panels so we had fantastic views of the city . there was also a decent sized bathroom with large walk in waterfall shower , luxurious toiletries and lots of fluffy towels . the room and hotel were spotlessly clean and comfortable and the staff very friendly . there was some street and traffic noise , but this is new york after all . the location is great , the famous UNknown jazz club with the tommy UNknown big band is across the street , times square is 2 blocks to the right and the restaurant row area is 1 block to the left - you'll be spoiled for choice . we didn't eat breakfast at the hotel as there's lots of choice nearby but did enjoy delicious desserts in the lovely bar area . i'm happy to recommend this hotel .
this hotel wraps you up the minute you walk in from the parking lot . the subtle lighting , artwork , floor to ceiling mirror , fireplace , deep chairs can all serve to distract you when checking in . polished steel elevator doors and deep blue plush surround you on the way up to your room . lots of nice touches in the room are a bonus , and for a change there is a view , even if it is of the university district of seattle where this hotel is located . classical music softly accompanies your exploration of the room . there is an umbrella , in - room safe , gorgeous artsy decor , the special noble house pencil , a delightfully preserved bath , and ear plugs for a nice , quiet sleep in a comfy bed . downstairs the district lounge serves patrons with a pint evenings and breakfast at 7 am . on site parking is reasonable . this is a lovely hotel if your business takes you to the university district of seattle .
we stayed here for a soccer tournament in march . the poor service and uncaring attitude we received from the front desk person and the night manager was the worst i have ever received at a holiday inn . we given room keys three times that did not work on our door . after showing them a fourth time that the key did not work , they UNknown checked us into a room that already had guests . we had too squeeze into a smaller room with no apologies from the staff after a two hour ordeal . calls to the priority club folks did not help . the manager on the day shift reluctantly gave us half off of your room for one night . this hotel is ideally located for the soccer fields , but i think the hotel realizes that and does not try very hard on their service . holiday inn express should be embarassed . the beds were comfortable and the shower was fine . that is about all that was good about our stay here .
if the rating was solely based on location , i'd give this hotel a 5 . parking is hard to find and costs $ 40 / night even for hotel guests . if you can get having a car out of your mind , this is a great location . you can walk to fisherman's wharf and many other tourist spots . one end of the streetcar line is behind the hotel and cable car lines are an easy walk . it was a bit further to north beach , but easily doable . numerous dining / entertainment options are also near by . the rooms in the beach street annex , where we were , are tired and need updating . internet access is so slow i wonder if the whole annex connects over a dial - up line . if you want to use the hotel pool , it's a block walk down the street to the main hotel . still , if you are out and about all day , this would be a great place to stay .
we stayed at the argonaut in january 2004 for our anniversary and overall we were pleased with the UNknown . the hotel is in a good location , fishermans wharf is within walking distance as is pier 39 . the restaurant directly across the street is not bad for breakfast . our room was clean but a little small and the staff was very friendly . i do question the view as it was not as great as everyone says . the windows are small , but at least we still got a view of alcatraz , but i did not think the view lived up to all the hype . the only other downfall was that we requested a king room , but when we checked in they had us down for a queen room and there were no king rooms left , so that was disappointing especially since we were paying extra for a room with a view . overall it was a nice hotel with friendly staff and in a good location . i would stay here again .
we stayed for 5 nights and later that month for another 3 nights . payed 160 $ +tax via UNknown hotels website . it's a great price for a nyc hotel in that location . rooms were nice and clean . you must remember this is a 3 star hotel and all you need while you're in nyc is a clean room to shower and to sleep in . if you're looking for a fancy hotel where you can use the lobby for meetings - this is not it . subway station is 2 minute walk , dean and deluca is right next to the hotel so you can have your morning coffee there , downstairs deli's coffee was not good enough for us . you can have your luggage stored for 1 . 5 $ per suitcase if you have a few hours from check out . it was a great experience to just get out of the hotel's door and be in the middle with of all the masses of people that walk the streets 24 hours a day .
when visiting or traveling through seattle for soccer games , we always stay in the UNknown mall / tukwila area due to value , local amenities and access to downtown seattle via the nearby light rail . we recently tried the doubletree suites due to availability and were pleasantly surprised . the hotel matched our previous experiences at doubletree venues in terms of service ( good ) , cleanliness and decor . unlike nearby hotels , the doubletree rooms are mini suites with a separate bedroom and sitting area . this was a great option given we could put our daughter on a sofa bed in the living area while we slept in the adjoining - but private - bedroom . the location is within a short walk of local restaurants , fast food outlets and the UNknown mall . parking is free ( another bonus ) and access to the i - 5 and light rail easy . we would certainly stay here again if the price remains competitive and would recommend taking a look if planning to visit seattle .
we spent seven nights at this hotel . check in was quick and very friendly . our room was a king alcove with a view of the pool , city walk , and the freeway . very clean and well appointed , including a small fridge . the bed was comfortable , the tv was a good size flat screen . we had a nice couch . the public and convention areas were clean comfortable and inviting . the pool area was quiet and plesant place to read as well as swim . the staff was extremely friendly and very helpful with any questions . there is a small UNknown store and starbucks in the lobby . we ate once in the bar and once in the restaraunt and while not cheap , service and food were very good . city walk universal city was a short seven minute walk away ( with a steep staircase to climb ) for other food choices and shops . the shuttle to the city walk worked well also . a great place to stay .
we got this room off priceline as a 4 star . the hotel appeared to have all amenities . but no fridge in the room , hot tub / pool . they do , however , have a few small fridges available upon request as we found out , a wonderful concierge and awesome beds . the carpet in the hallways is atrocious ( see pic ) , and stained , but i imagine it is on their to - do list . lots of street - car noise as well if you opt for the city - view rooms . our biggest annoyance was the forgotten wake - up call - we'd have missed our flight the next morning if we hadn't set our own back - up alarm . bottom line - i'm not sure what is really required for 4 - stars but i'll have to check that again . for what we paid , we were very happy ( aside from the missed wake - up call ) . i'd only recommend if you get a deal .
my husband and i are in our mid fifties and this was our first visit to new york . we found the sofitel 44th street to be everything that we required to make our holiday pleasurable . the location was perfect for the subway , times square , train station , broadway , shopping , in fact for all needs . we were fortunate enough to have a junior suite and as we stayed for 16 nights this extra room was invaluable . the service was great , i had a birthday during the stay and our daughter arranged from perth through guest services for me to receive flowers , champagne & chocolates first thing in the morning . this was followed by complimentary desserts delivered by the hotel to me in the evening . our request for a coffee machine , a kettle and a small fridge were attended to without fuss . we are fans of sofitel and once again our trust in the brand was rewarded . if the flight was not so long we would be back !
we entered our room and turned on the light . this hotel makes their beds with the pillows showing and the bedspread turned down . i turned on the light between the beds and right there on a bed pillow was a very large bed bug . i had seen them in pictures but never in person but it was obvious what it was . i killed it and took it to the office . the young clerk suggested it might be a UNknown . sorry , i do know what a UNknown looks like . an off - duty clerk said it was definitely a bed bug . we got a room far away from room 208 . we inspected the new room which appeared to be clear . however , in the second room , the toilet leaked around the base and the rack to hang clothes on pulled partly out of the wall with our few hanging clothes on it . also , the filthy , stained carpet in the hotel hallways was not a good first impression .
first of all , you must be a member of a private club that has a UNknown agreement with the columbia club or be sponsored by a member to stay there . traveling from california , i arranged for my club to reserve a room at the cc for three nights . located on monument circle in downtown indianapolis , this venerable 1930s 10 story club looks like something out of a UNknown british UNknown club . beautiful wood paneling and red leather wing chairs , butter colored leather chairs and booths in the bar and harrison room , two other restaurants and bars in the club . rooms on several floors have been gutted and beautifully refurbished with all the amenities of a 5 star hotel . staff is cordial , discreet and accomodating . i can understand why every recent american president has stayed here . this is truly a rare gem in a city that is vibrant and on the move . if you can manage a reservation , by all means stay or at least visit - .
i have visited the langham in 2006 . at that time i was a solo visitor but due to the exceptional service and care provided by the staff i promised myself i would return with that someone special in my life . four years later and now married to that person i returned to the langham . i had already told my new husband what a wonderful place this was . on our return we were not disappointed . the room was as comfortable as previously experienced . the service and standards had not changed and all the concierge staff especially william were excellent , caring and very , very helpful . nothing was too much trouble for any of them and we felt like part of the langham family . not forgetting jane on reception she too was just brilliant . senior management at the langham take note - you have a fantastic set of staff - from two very happy uk tourists from across the pond . we plan to return to this wonderful hotel again in the future .
i always stay at kimptons if possible because i know what i'm going to get with that brand . the bed will be comfortable . the hotel will be very clean . the staff is kind . the decor will be fashionable and fun . and , i thought , until i stayed at eventi , that the toiletries would be good enough that you don't need to be UNknown with your own shampoo and conditioner . wow , was i wrong . thank musky stuff at eventi might be a " fashionable " choice because the bottles match the room but it made me sick to my stomach . it stinks . i threw it out and went walking to the nearest drug store that night to buy something else . it's a minor complaint considering the value ( and the view ! ) of the hotel . my only other gripe : breakfast ! it really would be lovely to have an easily accessible meal in the morning , but it's nyc . there's a starbucks 2 blocks away .
my husband and i found this hotel through a travel site , it was listed as a comfort inn and with a different picture , imagine my disgust when the address led us to this ! from the time we walked in i wanted to leave . we got to our room and although we were very tired i refused to take off my clothes or shoes , i wanted to be ready to run ! i didn't have a choice but to use the restroom and when i did , UNknown , i closed the door and could only imagine what was all over the wall behind it , dripping down . that was it , we checked out and went straight to the airport and got the UNknown flight out . when we returned home we called the travel sight and complained , UNknown this hotel was no longer on their site . we were give a discount on our next travel arrangements through them , not likely ! too bad i couldn't rate this hotel in the negative !
we stayed here for a convention at the conference center ( literally a stones throw across the train tracks ) . overall had a good time although had some complications during the booking process as originally assured ( twice ) that we could have a rollaway bed in our room however right before arriving told this would not be possible . we were offered another room but this was a king rather then two beds so again not better for our party of three . we were however refunded promptly for the price difference and the staff tried their best . we loved the room - had a good view over petco park . the corridors are dark and a little confusing for some reason . the security in the hotel appears good ( since at the w / e there appeared to be a big regular kind of pool party resulting in some UNknown - for - UNknown UNknown clad people riding the elevators . would definately stay here again when back in san diego , for business or pleasure .
i stayed at the hotel so that i would be at the university of memphis for a business presentation the next day . i booked on my way to the hotel , so i was very surprised when the guest service associate offered me a lower price of $ 130 . when i got there to check in , she immediately told me about the awesome opportunities that being a priority club member entails and when i signed up , i got 1 , 500 bonus points . the suite was clean and crisp and the bed and pillows were soooo comfortable ! the only flaw was that the bathroom was a little bit smaller than i had expected and likewise the bathtub , but everything was clean and restocked . the bad part about the room ; the ironing board and iron were both completely useless . when you put water in the iron , it leaks unless it is on the highest setting and the ironing board is broken so i had to be very careful when using it .
stayed at the boston hilton in late december and was very pleased . the location ( nr to prudential center and easy access to green line and orange line t ) is excellent . the hotel is modest in size ( about 25 floors but limited rooms on each floor ) , but they now have a diamond lounge for breakfast on the ground level - too bad it is not also open all day for use . the rooms are pleasant , particularly if you snag a UNknown room' which is sized up . fyi - free internet is available in lobby , but very costly ( $ 14 . 95 ) if used in one's room . rooms have flat screen tvs with a good selection of cable channels . management has made the main lobby more hospitable and it is easy to use if working or visiting . will be nice when they finally drop the internet fee for in - room use . recommend for stay when interesting in having access to shopping parts of downtown boston .
i stayed at the marriott rivercenter for a 5 day / 4 night convention and my bill came to roughly $ 1000 , including the taxes . that is $ 250 a night , and i didn't get anything extra - no room service , no movie . nada . the room was okay , but i get just as nice a room at the hampton inn / drury inn / etc . for less than half that price . also . i requested a king bed , and they only had doubles for my first night . then they moved me into a king room . but . the main reason i am writing this review is because they have the audacity to charge $ 10 for internet service . i guess the $ 250 a night couldn't cover the internet fee . that rubbed me the wrong way . but it is in a good location with lots of restaurants and the alamo nearby . but , were it not for the convention , i wouldn't have stayed there .
i stayed here with my son for 3 days - the first day the room wasn't clean till 3pm , the second day i left the tag outside the door for the room to be cleaned between 8 - 10 : 30 1pm the room still wasn't cleaned . , no vents in the bathroom when you take a shower so it get hot and sticky in the bathroom . outside of the poor room service for cleaning , the rest of the hotel was nice and clean , the staff pleaseant . the pool and pool area was very clean and nice and pleanty of towels . the location was wonderful . i didn't eat in the resturant but spoke to others in the hotel and they said it was very good the bed was comfortable too , tv was dated and no free internet ( not sure why they have free high speed internet marked below ) they charged 1 . 99 an hour or 12 . 99 a day , resturant down the street offered it for free ?
i can't say enough good things about the hard rock san diego . we arrived , valet parked the car and from the moment the doors opened , felt like a rock star . it was awesome . we were there for the UNknown convention ( which was right across the street , awesome ) . everything was in walking distance , it was great . all the wonderful places to eat were all in the same block pretty much . its right in the heart of the gaslamp district which was a plus . we reserved a table / vip service at 207 and had a great expierence . float was fun as well , a great place to hang out / chill and be able to talk with friends . the weather did not permit sun bathing which i was bummed , the pool area looked so fun and posh . management , you guys rock . all the employees did an a+ job . can't wait to book it again the next time the UNknown is in town !
the marriott residence inn in the piper glen area of charlotte nc is not to be missed . every room is a suite and a very large suite at that ! i think my room is as big as my first apartment . each comes with full size fridge , microwave , dishes , dining area , 2 tv's , seperated rooms , central heating and air . the list goes on and on . the cleanliness of the rooms was UNknown and met with my strict standards . the outdoor pool is lovely , but the workout room is a bit small . it only had 2 treadmills , a bike and a stepper . the best thing is the breakfast ! full service , complimentary breakfast with eggs , sausage , waffles , cereal , yogurt , bagels etc . very good , and it changed daily . also , each day had a happy hour with complimentary food in the evening . if you're looking for a great place to stay , the residence inn has it all .
myself and 3 friends recently stayed here for an evening . valet me us out front and took the car to park . check in was smooth and the room was good size . i booked this trip on hotwire so it was only 170 . 00 a night and for downtown boston i was impressed . i do not know if it is a 5 star because i never really felt that wow this place is exceptional but that being said its for sure a 4 star . the bathrooms are gigantic . a tub that is seperate from a large ( room for 2 ) stand up glass shower . the staff seemed friendly what limited contact we had with them . the only down side of the stay was the fire alarm at 4 : 15 am which i guess unless they pulled it UNknown there is nothing they can do about that . i would stay here again for sure and would recommend going through hotwire to get a room . hope this helped some of you !
my wife and i spent two very nice nights in the palmer house last october 21 - 22 , UNknown the executive level rooms for the added comfort and convenience . while a bit more pricey than regular rooms , the executive level included a continental breakfast and a happy hour , both with substantial offerings of good , solid foods . in this regard , don't let the title " continental breakfast " fool you . it included hot and cold cereals , cold cuts , a broad assortment of rolls , coffee and teas . alcoholic drinks were available during happy hour at a reasonable price ( champagne cocktails for 6 dollars each ) . the rooms were large , very clean and comfortable . within walking distance of the civic opera house ( which we attended both nights ) and the art museum ( be sure to check out the new addition to the museum ) and north michigan avenue , the palmer house is an ideal spot from which to launch your sightseeing of the windy city .
the best part of our stay at the ocean villa inn in san diego was not needing to start up the car after we arrived until it was time to leave . the hotel is within easy walking distance to the beach , ( unless you are carrying too much stuff ) and the shops and restaurants on newport avenue . we were even able to walk to our house of UNknown for religious services . the room had tight quarters but a lovely view and was reasonably priced . the refrigerator and microwave were handy for storing and heating leftovers from dinner . even though many guests had dogs with them we were never disturbed by barking or agressive dogs . the staff was helpful with minor requests . the continental breakfast which included yogurt and hard boiled eggs got us off to a good start for the day . after we returned from the beach we rinsed off in the outdoor shower and enjoyed the warm pool . we intend to return to the ocean villa inn next summer .
this is an elegant hotel with an " old world " but stylish feel to it . we stayed in an " executive suite " on the UNknown floor overlooking the front entry of the hotel . the room was wonderful and what you would expect from a fairmont hotel . the staff here go the extra mile to make you feel like you are someone very important . i would also recommend the pool and fitness center which are also " first class " like everything else in the hotel . we had sunday brunch in the georgia room , which is a great big dining hall with a palatial feel to it . the brunch though , was only just " ok " for the price at $ 25 per person . seattle is a dining mecca though , and there are many excellent dining options just steps from this great hotel . my only other complaint was a charge of $ 1 . 69 for a local call which is an irritant even on a $ 300 bill for the stay .
what can i say - compared to the mark twain where i stayed right before and which has a star more this hotel beats it in all aspects . great location , just make sure to get a room backwards cause the cable cars can be loud i guess . rooms are renewed , a bit small but completely fine . staff is always trying to help and there is even breakfast included although it is really not worth mentioning , i didn't go there cause it wasn't worth it . oh - but avoid the 3rd party internet service by UNknown or what it's called . shows full signal quality , is advertised as full n standard but is clearly limited in speed - dramatically ! youtube not possible , downloads ? forget it ! i contacted them to complain and never got an answer . the page also shows no indication for clients whom to contact , just hotels are addressed as business partners . there are a lot of free wifi places around , so spare the 11 $ per 24hrs !
this was our second stay at the embassy suites convention center . our room looked brand new and was very clean . the staff was incredibly friendly and helpful , providing good restaurant recommendations , making sure we had quick cab service , and even giving my nephew popcorn and cookies ! without exception we were greeted enthusiastically at every turn . the location is fantastic for those wanting to tour the city ; it was an easy walk to the metro and we could walk to the smithsonian museums and the spy museum . also , chinatown is a very short walk away , so we had a delicous meal in a special environment . the embassy breakfast can't be beat . the food was plentiful , the omelets delicious , and the tables were cleared quickly and it was not overcrowded . we looked forward to breakfast very morning ! thank you to the charles hill , the manager , the hotel and staff for another great stay - we will definitely choose embassy suites again on our next trip to dc !
let's start at the beginning . valet parking was such a cluster and so disorganized . it was hard to get help and we watched them put the tag for our truck in someone else's bmw ( could've been a good thing ) but they realized the mistake . then we got inside and realized we had made the reservation for the wrong day . the front desk was very helpful in accommodating us . we got to our room and discovered we got the handicap room . the bathroom door wouldn't close all the way or lock . there was hair on the bathroom ceiling and in the shower . the walls were paper thing and even from 13 floors up we could hear everything on the street . we UNknown known when we found earplugs offered with the soap and shampoo . i've also never had a more difficult time getting a tv to work . there wasn't enough light and one of the lamps was burnt out . the coffee rocked and the paper towels in the lobby bathroom were amazing .
i stay at this hotel for business often and highly recommend it to everyone ! the rooms are clean and comfortable , the staff is beyond friendly , and it is so convenient to lax . everyone from the bell staff to the banquet staff is so friendly that we know them by name and have even met many of their families . it is like a home away from home ! the concierge lounge employees , blanca and UNknown , always greet you with a hug and smile . i cannot say enough good things about their event planning department . the events here run so smoothly because they have such dedicated , devoted staff . also , the banquet food is great ! if you are a light sleeper , i recommend turning on the fan to drown out the sound of the airplanes . there isn't much to walk to , but their is a shuttle that for $ 3 , will take you round trip to el segundo and manhattan beach for some awesome restaurants and shopping . highly recommended !
this hotel is great despite being located a little bit far away from the usual washington tourist attractions . the bonus is that it is located directly opposite the george washington uni . the campus security guards add a good , safe feel to the area even at night . the metro is about an UNknown walk away at foggy bottom . the hotel is within walking distance of the lincoln memorial ( 10 - 15min walk ) . the hotel rooms themselves are a little dated , but the kitchen is reasonably equipped so you can cook a simple meal if you want to . they are currently renovating the restaurant so breakfast is in one of the conference rooms . not too good as often there are no seats left . also , the breakfast room is not cleaned frequently such that you have to clean up the mess the previous person left ( crumbs , spilled milk and all ! ) despite that , i had a great time at the hotel and would recommend it to any budget conscious travellers .
i was very happy with the room and the 24 service they had . i think this is a great deal , if you're on the budget , and need mainly sleeping amenities . the parking is free , and the lot is fenced . we walked everywhere , to the hancock and the navy pier . kids had a blast for breakfast at the next door mcdonalds - which is the cleanest , and the best one i've ever been to - with the museum and interactive stuff they have . the 24 hrs walgreens , two blocks down , was also very useful . this location is great , the kids were so excited to be in the middle of everything . in spite of the winter weather it was easy to have them walking around . there was an attraction on each block they walked on , like rainforest cafe , or the portillo's and UNknown restaurant . the purpose for our chicago visit was to visit the downtown and the museums , and this hotel was awesome for our needs .
i spent several weeks at this hotel while traveling for business . i found the hotel staff to be curteous and kind and the hotel itself to be perfectly suitable , but nothing really out of the ordinary . the rooms are all plenty sizeable , clean enough , but a bit dated . the workout facility is small , with few machines , and there is an indoor pool . the surrounding area is pretty good , with several chain restaurants and a movie theater within walking distance , and it's off of the highway - a short drive from the airport . spg platinum members get free breakfast as well . my biggest pet peeve was entering the bathroom and having to unplug the bathtub drain upon every visit - i don't want to touch the UNknown plug , and do they really think that many people are going to take a bath ? overall , it's a fine hotel for a quick business stay here or there , but not a great spot for a family vacation or a luxurious getaway .
after being bumped from my delta flight to maui , i was shuttled to westin lax . i passed on their first offer of hilton , and was delighted at the enormous , elegant lobby , decor , and speedy starwood preferred guest check in . the room was very nice , had a mini - bar , snacks ( way overpriced but we all know that is par for the course ! ) , and comfortable bed , and was surprisingly quiet being so close to the lax . the best part of my unplanned westin stay was my dinner at the onsite , fabulous daily grille . the chain is upscale , well staffed , popular , and always delicious , and fun . we have one where i reside in palm desert , on el paseo and we do dine there frequently . overall , the westin has a younger , well dressed , energetic crowd , and is clean , and gorgeous . i would stay here if you are flying out of lax . you will not be disappointed .
this property is no longer a 4 star hotel . while the lobby remains grand , the rooms are very small and in need of a makeover . the carpet was frayed , wallpaper was peeling off and doors and door frames are beat up . you can barely turn around in the bathroom , and when the closet door is open you cannot get to the bathroom or bed . the tv's are ancient , and there is no coffeemaker nor refrigerator in the room . the front desk clerk was rude to my wife when she checked in . the hotel charges a fee of $ 10 per person per day to use the fitness facilities and another fee to access the internet . valet parking is over $ 60 per night . could hilton possibly nick us for any more fees ? they are worse than the airlines . the only reason we stayed here was that all the other downtown hotels were booked up . in the future that would be the only reason we would ever stay here again .
on the surface this hotel is beautiful , even if slightly dated . the lobby and main floor are especially nice , and seem to decline slightly from there . my room was very large , and nicely decorated , but there were a few problems . my room had a bath with shower and a stand alone shower , which did not work . the shower in the bath was nice . the bed and linens were great , but the tv was small , and in a strange location in the room , so it could hardly be seen from the bed . the drawers in the bureau were broken and ill fitting . the hotel provided a robe that was nice , and the toiletries were great . the hotel is right downtown , so very convenient for business , but not alot of night life in this part of town . even most restaurants are closed for dinner , so without a cab or car you will be hoofing it quite a ways to eat anywhere but at the hotel .
we have recently stayed at the library for six nights and would highly recommend it . the room we stayed in ( 402 ) was perfectly presented , with ample space for the two of us and our three suitcases . the bathroom was larger than expected and spotlessly clean . the maid and turning down service were excellent , especially as they managed to turn our chaotic state of room back to its original pristine condition each day . the communal area on the 2nd floor is a perfect place to relax , grab a coffee , muffin etc . mid running around manhatten and the wine / cheese evenings each night are a great start to an evening on the town . breakfast was very good with all that you would expect from a basic continental buffet . all the staff were very helpful without being intrusive , and provided good advice on excursions / restaurants etc . overall there is not anything significant to fault about this place and we will definitely stay here again when we come back to nyc .
my husband and i decided to spend our 2nd anniversay in san diego . we chose the pacific terrace hotel bc of its location . the view of the ocean is outstanding and all of the rooms have balconies . it was excellent . we arrived to a staff that was welcoming and an environment that was relaxing . once UNknown to our rooms , there was a bottle of champagne and a card in our room to congratulate us on our 2 year wedding anniversary . that was very personal and showed us that the hotel / staff took effort in knowing us and celebrating with us . the room was exactly as it shows on the website . it was beautiful ! we had all of the UNknown home but we were in a luxurious hotel . the hotel was next to the beach , across from several grocery / pharmacy stores and in walking distance to multiple restaurants . wow is the word for this hotel and its amenities . thanks to the staff for making it a perfect anniversary trip .
the hotel was nice but no good if you have a car . the rooms were the smallest i've ever seen . they were clean though and adequately equipped . the location was great , especially for the price and i had a good nights sleep there . however , as with anywhere in that part of san diego i was woken up by the train in the morning . the underground parking was bad news . it was far too small , we had a mustang which was easy enough to park and we got a space late enough . however , despite our efforts to park in a way we would least likely attract damage , our car still got hit . fortunately it was a rental and we had loss damage waiver but it's still a hassle . the hotel staff weren't really bothered when i mentioned it to them . not really good enough for $ 10 . the hotel room itself was cheap enough though . the entrance to the garage isn't exhaust friendly either for a low car .
for me at first it was all about location . this hotel is at the UNknown , at the metro station and directly across the street from my sons dorm at rice university . i stayed on a weekend and things were very quiet , but monday morning by noon it was beginning to hop . the staff could not have been more helpful and friendly . the room was clean and well appointed with crisp and comfy bedding . we tried room service twice and were not disappointed . only two things to be aware of . the parking garage may be a problem for some as it's not a flat rate unless you park it and leave it . check it out first and you won't be surprised or disappointed . and the starbucks in the lobby is closed on the weekends . but ! there's another just outside the front door , next to the chipotle and sandwich shop . we bid on priceline and and were very happy to have gotten this really nice and comfy room for $ UNknown .
our group of 12 , in town for a tigers games had to changed rooms for a few reasons and it didn't get much better . the a / c unit after running for an hour didn't work . maybe because the filter obviously needed to be changed since the early 90's . the long blonde hairs , UNknown smashed into the corner of the nightstand between beds , the large red crusty stain on one of the bedspreads . in the 'new' room we discovered blood on the back of the curtains , scotch tape holding the batteries in to the tv remote , the smoke detector disconnected and hanging from the ceiling and the room smelled like vinegar . when we returned to the hotel around 1 : 30 am , there were many people sitting outside the lobby drinking , and what appeared to be hookers UNknown in the lobby . oh and if you plan to walk barefoot in your room , they will be blackened by the carpet ! for the price and proximity to downtown attractions look elsewhere .
we spent four nights at this hotel and it was perfect . the room wasn't huge , but we basically just needed it to sleep and shower . but it was very clean ! we stayed on the 23rd floor in tower 1 , which had a lovely view of the city . the staff were very nice and helpful . i read a lot of the reviews here about the neighborhood - as long as you go to the right out of the hotel , you are perfectly fine . it's your typical big city . it was a perfect location for us because we had family who lives in the city about 5 blocks from the hotel , so we were able to walk / cable car everywhere we needed to go . if we go back , i would certainly stay here again . the only real problem we had was on saturday night of our stay , someone on our floor was having a party in their room and every time their room door opened , we could hear them !
i was a little surprised that they started charging for parking , when they didn't last year . also , the sign in the garage says that parking is $ 14 per night , but they insisted on charging me $ 15 . just a small thing , but annoying . also , i am thankful that the room had four coffee cups in it , since three of them still had food residue on them . obviously not cleaned properly after the last use . makes you wonder what else they did not clean . i am a hilton hhonors gold vip member , but i had to ask twice for the bottled water that is supposed to be included in the room for loyalty level . for a hotel that is pricing itself as upscale , they are not delivering upscale services . there is a sheraton suites down the road that was offering a similar room , minus the kitchen ( a suite ) , for about $ 100 less a night . i think i will stay there next time .
the hotel has taken every step to make sure you feel well taken care of - from a welcome basket of treats ( at no charge ) to breakfast buffet in the morning , from incredibly comfortable UNknown beds to new release UNknown movies showing at regular times ( again , at no charge ) on the room tvs . the people the front desk were available and friendly , and the amenities offered very worthy of the reasonable price . my only detraction from the joy of this hotel would be the cleaning service that began at 9 am , sounding like constant , very heavy stomping above us , combined with frequent slamming of the room doors . we were awoken at the onset of the cleaning on the floor above us , and it seems the walls were much thinner than we had realized , as we were unable to return to sleep - giving up an hour later . perhaps a later cleaning time , or a service more conscientious of the disruption to the guests , would be welcome .
since i didn't want to fight the rush hour traffic and given the the marriott was booked , i chose to stay at this courtyard the night before my return flight home . never again . the hotel is in great condition , it has been recently renovated , has the bistro restaurant which served me a nice sandwich for supper at a decent price . the room was very clean and the staff were all full of smiles . in renovating the hotel they must have run out of money for mattresses . the one i had in my room was simply awful . it was hard , sloped in the middle and towards the front of the headboard and i awoke with a backache . despite my request for a feather free room the pillows were probably filled will down as i was sneezing too by morning . room 118 . since i am a lifetime platinum with marriott i will contact their corporate offices as well . this hotel will be placed on my " do not stay again " list .
i have stayed at this hotel 3 times . always for convenience . the first time was 5 / 02 for $ 79 / night . the room was disgusting ; however , the convenience to msg allowed us to forgive that . the second time we stayed there , was 12 / 02 . this time the hotel must not have been extremely busy , because we were given a better quality room for $ 99 / night . this summer , we were charged $ 179 / night for a standard room the size of a cracker jack box . the condition and smell of the room were beyond description . we had to have the room UNknown . to learn that this hotel is charging $ 399 for this room this december makes my blood boil . nyc government wake up and control the % of rate increases that your hotels charge for popular seasons ! this does not help your tourism ; and it should be UNknown for hotels to charge rates that far exceed the services and conditions rendered .
we stayed at the fairmont at the end of june for 4 nights . the hotel creates a good impression from the outside and this continues in the grand lobby area , although they could do with more doormen to greet guests as we had to struggle with our own luggage which wasn't great . the first room we were allocated was small , dark and smelled of cigarette smoke so we requested an alternative and were moved along the hall to a much bigger and better room . although we did not eat in the hotel we did try the oak room bar for drinks and we found it very pleasant . the location of the hotel is perfect for shopping at the malls and designer shops nearby and is within walking distance to almost everything in boston you would want to see as a tourist . on the whole i would recommend this hotel if you can get a decent rate as the location can't be beaten and it really is a beautiful hotel ( if you get a good room ! )
i travel often . mostly for business . lately most of my hotel stays have been just " ok " . many were below that standard . on the contrary , the westin austin at the domain exceeded my high expectations . when i arrived , the group i was with made me two consecutive reservations , instead of one . the receptionist , said " no problem . i'll fix this right away . " the next day at our group's lunch , i asked the server if the soup was gluten free ( my allergy ) . the server came back after having checked with the chef , told me the soup was fine and that they were making me a special salad ( all without a request ) . everywhere i went , staff members greeted me with a smile . often asking me if they could help with anything . summary , it doesn't take much to satisfy most of us guests . however , when the staff tries even harder , the experience is refreshing . thank you westin !
overall decent experience , but found several things disappointing . the staff were all friendly and helpful , some rooms have wireless internet access , the bed was comfortable . the hotel is interestingly decorated w / period pieces ( esp the lobby area ) . in our room , the only mirror you could use without UNknown down was in the closet ! the bathroom mirror was very low due to the funny shape of the roof . there's no fan in the bathroom , so the paint was peeling in multiple places and the toilet holder was falling out of the wall . be aware the " deluxe " continental breakfast described on their site had the usual coffee , juice , breads , and cereal . the deluxe part consisted of a plate of hard boiled eggs and a plate of sausage patties under heat lamps . the eggs and patties never varied the whole week we were there and it got a bit boring . also the the breads were not very fresh , probably bought at a warehouse club .
great hotel in a great city . all staff we encountered were very friendly , helpful and professional . reception changed our room because we didnt want an interconnecting room and they gave us some great recommendations for local bars ( the UNknown bar and the hub were both great spots ) . waiting staff at breakfast were great too . i can heartily recommend the king rooms . nice size and a fantastic bed , spotlessly clean and nice decor . hotel is in a great location - nothing wrong with the neighbourhood . in the daytime theres a walkway directly to macys . we were there for the blizzard so it was nice to be able to go shopping without having to brave the elements . very near to the park street and downtown crossing stations and only a 10 - 12 min walk to faneuil hall . about $ 20 each way by cab to / from airport enjoyable stay in a nice hotel on our first visit to a great city . when we go back we'll stay there again .
i made my reservation thru the hotels website and had the confirmation letter in my hand on my ipad . we came all the way from nc , traveled all day only to be told " your reservation was cancelled " . the UNknown , cold front desk person would not tell me how or why . i did not cancel it so who did . he offered me a smoking room but we have asthma so that is not a good thing . i mentioned that it did not appear they were booked solid since the large parking lots were empty . he said there were tour buses . i went back there to check after we found another hotel and ate dinner . no buses at 9pm . i have to say that after seeing and smelling the lobby i did not regret not staying there . it smelled bad and looked really dirty and in disrepair . there is something wrong at this hotel . in case there is a need for my proof of this here is my confirmation # UNknown
my husband and 10 y / o son stayed here for 4 days . the hotel section is divided into three areas and each area has an adult pool and a family pool . the rooms are large and clean . the big draw here is the water park . three slides , lazy river , wave pool , 25 person hot tub , sports pool and a kiddie area . on fridays and saturdays , there is a buffet ( one trip through ) and a disney classic movie . it was a great way to end our 10 day tour of arizona . i thought the location was fine . to the west of the resort is not the best area but not too bad . just two exits away is a great area with restaraunts and a movie theater . just under the freeway is arizona mills . the resort backs up to south hills park which is the largest city owned park in the us . hiking , bike riding , horse back riding can all be done inthe park .
my son and i spent two nights in this hotel in mid may prior to UNknown a long felt desire to travel across the usa to california by train and i can definitely endorse the positive comments made by many previous reviewers regarding the location , quality of accommodation and friendliness of the staff . our room on the 11th floor was comfortable , well equipped and clean and whilst the view from our window was not extensive we could see a short stretch of the hudson river between the buildings opposite . the times square area with its many theatres is close by and central park is within walking distance . a subway station on a corner near the hotel has a direct service to ground zero and the financial district for those interested . for eating i can commend the olympic diner right across 8th avenue for an good and inexpensive breakfast and the pigalle restaurant adjoining the hotel where we had two excellent evening meals . i would definitely recommend the hotel to anyone making a short visit to new york .
i stayed at the hotel lawrence because i was attending a conference so the location is very convenient . the staff was awesome and they made sure everything went smoothly for me . i was traveling by myself ( UNknown old female ) and they shuttled me around to the convention center and restaurants . yes , there is a 3 mile radius to the shuttle but the majority of restaurants were within a mile . my ac was broke the first night but when informed the next morning , the staff had it repaired before i returned back . the restaurant onsite is fantastic with excellent service . the room is small but hotel adds little touches to make up for it like bath and body bathing products , in room coffee and water bottles , and comfy beds . if you are traveling with a large family ( 4 or more ) then i think you should look else UNknown just because of the size of room but if you are traveling solo or with partner , definitely stay at this hotel !
i booked this hotel given the location is nearby the airport and we were arriving very late ( or early depending how you look at it - 1am ) . i have stayed at many hotels in the hilton family and this was perfectly adequate for an overnighter . the only niggle i had was around the courtesy bus . i called the hotel from the airport to ask where to pick it up and how long it would take . despite them knowing we were waiting , i was told it would be a half hour wait ! we ended up taking a 3 minute taxi ride instead . where is the customer service here ? i had requested an upgraded room if there was one available and at check in asked if this was this case , i was told no , however we were in a suite . i dont know about you , but i do not call a standard hotel room with 2 beds and a bathroom , a suite . nevertheless , i would still stay here again .
this hotel is directly connected to the airport , so if you are ever in need of lodging while at the airport i highly recommend it . we were recently trying to fly out of detroit and the last two flights of the day were full , no space available . rather than catch a shuttle to any of the other hotels that are usually around an airport , we saw the westin entrance right in the airport . i was skeptical but too tired to try anywhere else . it was really a pleasant surprise . quiet ( a feat , as the airplanes fly directly over it ) , exceptionally clean , beautifully decorated , a romantic restruant with good hot food and some local michigan beer , we felt saved ! the next morning after a good nights sleep on a comfortable bed with crisp white sheets , a beautifully marbled and clean shower , we caught the first flight out . we literally walked out of the hotel and into the airport . oh , and the price was reasonable .
this is not your typical airport hotel . it's modern , it's happening and it's cool . unfortunately , these ingredients don't always translate into a great hotel experience . starwood's w hotels established the benchmark for this category and others have followed with varying degrees of success . and while the typical w hotel delivers unexpected design elements and quirks , they do it with quality and a high level of comfort . the custom , however , seemingly does everything on the cheap . the lobby is boring with plastic furniture . the elevators are small and often crammed with hipsters . the rooms are unremarkable and bland . the air conditioning is inadequate . the platform beds are supremely uncomfortable . there's no closet per say . and the bathroom is very basic to the point of being offputting . for example , the dark blue enamel painted bathroom floor is all too reminiscent of a public bathroom . that's the last thing you want to be reminded of when you are using a " pay " bathroom . very disappointing .
i took my daughter and grandson down to san diego to visit the zoo etc . the room at the hotel was cute , but we had a hard time getting a crib . they didn't deliver it to our room until almost ten ! it was simply a UNknown pack and play and a small one at that . plus it didn't come with a sheet . the next night there were no towels in the bathroom even though they had come in and made the beds . my daughter's boyfriend stopped by from his marine base and found a room that was used for storage with plenty of towels . if he hadn't , we wouldn't have had any . as far as i know , they never delivered any to our room . last but not least the window was a shutter type where you can open the panes to let in air . two of the panes on the bottom were missing , and our room was quite cold the first night . i definitely would not stay there again .
the hotel location was great . we flew in and used the metro for transportation ( station located below hotel ) . they will store your luggage if you arrive early . we reserved a parlour room which only has a sofa sleeper which we found out was broken . i called the front desk and within minutes had a double roll away bed . i would suggest to spend an additional $ 30 a night and reserve a room with a real bed . we never tried the breakfast buffet which was $ 14 . 95 but we used the hotel's restaurant for supper a couple of times . very expensive but very good . i highly recommend a restaurant on the waterfront ( 10 minute walk ) called " UNknown " which has asian fusion seafood at reasonable prices . we walked from the hotel to almost everything we wanted to see . only downside was there was no nightlife around the hotel and trying to figure out the metro system but we did have a good time staying at this hotel .
the best thing about the hotel is its atmosphere . there was a nice touch of quality about the place , but without any of the stuffiness that you get in many of the overrated hotels . i stayed with a friend twice within a few days , and the first time had a deluxe room , which is worth the extra bit of money if you like a little space or privacy . the reception staff were helpful by and large , although i preferred some to others . i would definitely stay here again ; this hotel does all the important things well and is suitably modern and comfortable . we did have a slight issue at the end when a receptionist booked us a taxi ( without us really asking for it ) when he knew we were leaving the next morning , and the taxi driver than tried to charge us over the odds , but this was just a minor blip in what was otherwise a great hotel , but i will definitely catch my own taxi next time !
any time we have an early flight out of denver we stay here and it's always been a wonderful stay . our room had a door between the bedroom and the living area which was perfect for being able to put our baby to sleep early , yet allowed us to still watch some tv or use the bathroom without having to worry about disturbing her or being in complete darkness . we found out at this past stay we could park at the hotel & take their shuttle right to the airport & it was only $ 10 ! way cheaper than parking anywhere at the airport & we didn't have to worry about packing the car at the hotel , driving to a parking lot , unloading our car , loading into the shuttle , then unloading again at the airport . very important when traveling with a little one ! the beds are comfy , it's nice & quiet , and the cookies in the evening are delicious . we have stayed here multiple times and will definitely stay here again .
let me start by saying that if you're expecting a " hilton " experience you won't get it with this hotel - but that's not a bad thing ! this hotel is for dog lovers who want to take them on vacation with the family . the hotel is clean , the staff is friendly . it's less than a 5 minute walk to dog beach , and if you get a " dog " room on the ground floor , these rooms open up to a fenced in area , so you don't have to keep your dog cooped up in the room until you're ready to go . the hotel serves a small ( free ) continental breakfast and you can arrange to get maid service for the dog rooms - but - the dogs cannot be in the room . there are a few restaurants in the area that accept dogs ( shades and UNknown were my favorites ) and they even supply water and dog biscuits . at shades , you can actually buy a doggie dinner for your pooch !
stayed over holiday weekend , so my experience may not be typical ( hotel was pretty empty ) . some really strong points : parking is free , motor lodge style ( this is a revamped 50's motor court hotel ) nice big rooms secure entry gated with key access , nice pool area and outdoor lounging spots if sf weather ever permits , that is . good central spot to explore on foot or bike tres helpful front desk folks - luke went out of his way to help suggest jogging routes and food options one small sticking point : the cold ! rooms are heated by one small wall unit , doesn't do a good job keeping up with room heating needs . but front desk will loan you a space heater , which warms things up and can be UNknown about the room . no heat to speak of in the bathroom UNknown . think cold tile floors . i would stay again . good value when booked via joie de vivre web site , or hotels . com if available .
hotel indigo is a great find in san antonio . i've stayed in other hotels there that have tiny rooms , but the rooms here were spacious and very clean . we loved the hardwood floors in the room and the hallways that still had the feel of an old office building . we made a point of stopping by the hotel bar every evening to have a drink served by mike . he was always very friendly and offered information about the history of the building ( built on one of the external walls of the alamo ) and for things to do around town and places to eat . the front desk staff was great as well , always greeting us with a smile . overall great experience , the only thing that i would criticize is that the kitchen at the hotel restaurant didn't seem to have enough ventilation , so every time we stepped off the elevator in the lobby it smelled like kitchen grease . despite this though , we had a great time and will definitely be back !
just 1 block down from good morning america in times square , yet the area is quiet . really good location for walking to everything , including the theatres , times square , restaurant row , grayline tour buses , subway . etc . i stayed there in 2011 with my sister , and this year i went back with my husband . they upgraded us without us even asking for it . the rooms have just enough space for what you need , and the views are okay ( usually just of another building ) . last year we took a red eye flight , so it was a little hard to get checked in and we were so tired . but once they did give us our room ( at about 2 : 00pm ) , it was an upgrade . rooms seemed a little pricey but i hear that is how it is in ny . they do give a aaa discount , so be sure to ask . everyone there was helpful and i would definitely recommend to a friend .
my wife and i recently went to new york to take our niece and her friend as a gift for graduating from college . we stayed at the waldorf astoria . my wife and i have each been to new york 2 dozen times or more . it is one of our favorite cities . we have , over the years , stayed at many hotels . however , after our stay at the UNknown astoria , we will attempt , in the future , to stay there . the hotel is old , but has been updated . somehow , the hotel retains all of the charm of the past . the service from check - in to departure was wonderful . i noted one prior comment regarding the starbucks in the lobby - it was open when we were there during the first of june . we were able to book as small suite at a very good price considering new york . both the bedroom and the sitting room was bigger than many hotel rooms we've stayed at in new york .
location is excellent . service is very friendly yet professional . i would rate the staff the best feature of this hotel . check - in and check - out were a breeze . everybody smiles . rooms are comfortable although a bit sad as their UNknown colour is a sort of dirty - gray . bed was excellent . the bathroom is ok , shower was fantastic , clean and spacious . i was on the 7th floor . not a noisy place . a couple of issues with this hotel : first the UNknown is bizarre . it might appeal to some , to others , me included , it appears as an unnecessary excercise of trying to be different . but in the wrong direction . way too dark everywhere but especially in the elevators and the hallways . i understand the lobby bar is very trendy , but on the room floors , please , turn on some lighting . second , continental breakfast is way too expensive for what it offers . all in all , however a good choice
a friend and i stayed here over president's day weekend . hotel san jose is definitely a fun , funky hotel in a cool , hipster area , with lots of boutiques , bars & restaurants nearby , and hosts a nice outdoor lounge where you can get beer / wine and small snacks . the room was fine , but with cement floors and minor rugs , it just felt a bit cold & sparce . also , the hotel is all on street level , and since our room faced the street , we couldn't leave our blinds open unless we wanted all UNknown to see our business . that being said , the bathroom hosted great bath products ( shampoo / conditioner , shower gel & lotion ) . the bed was comfortable , but nothing special . i'd probably stay again , but it's more of a party hotel than a long - term kind of place , and for the rates you pay , you might as well be closer to downtown & have something included in your stay .
the hotel looked relatively new . the rooms weren't too bad size - wise for ny standards that is . i had a room with two double beds and didn't find it too cramped at all . there is free wi - fi in the hotel but it really doesn't work well at all . if you need wi - fi for work i would suggest you stay somewhere else . the wi - fi works great in the lobby but that's all . there isn't much in the streets directly around the hotel but a short stroll up and you'll end up at greenwich village where there are tons of food and bar options . the subway station is just a few minutes away . if you like to walk it's quite easy to use this hotel as a base for exploring the city . if you're looking to go for a run , the promenade along the hudson river which is only a few minutes away is a great place to go . it's a nice alternative to running in central park .
the hotel is well maintained and a half dozen or so blocks from navy pier . we enjoy staying at embassy suites hotels when traveling since they offer a quite nice breakfast with your stay as opposed to a meager continental breakfast that most others offer . the staff working the breakfast did their best , but the hotel was obviously understaffed on the weekend we stayed . nightly managers reception with complimentary drinks ( both alcohol and non - alcohol ) and chips / salsa . parking approaches $ 50 per day for valet and $ 42 for park yourself . warning : if you plan on driving the city while there and self park , your total fees will exceed valet rates . best to park the car in a nearby lot for about $ 30 . 00 a day and use taxis for local trips . lastly , internet runs ~ $ 15 / day . something that drives me nuts for a hotel that UNknown between $ 130 - $ 150 a night and that much lower brands offer complimentary .
this is a wonderful little hotel right at times square - the location cannot be beat for gettting around everywhere . the rooms are very comfortable , beautifully clean and quiet if you are in the back of the hotel . yes , they are a bit small but that is nyc . it is definitely adequate for a good stay here . we stayed for about 5 days . the continental breakfasts and all day drinks / coffee where nice . the fruit salad and fresh fruit were excellent . the breakfast were definitely better than your average continental fare at other hotels . i think the best part of this hotel is the free wifi , complimentary snacks 24 hours a day , and fantastic location . we could even bring any visitors to the second level lounge for coffees and snacks . the staff made us feel very welcome and everything was very much a home away from home attitude . overall , a very comfortable hotel that offers you peace of mind and old fashioned service in an excellent location .
just stayed here for 3 nights and have no real complaints . great location if you are using the metro system it is located right around the corner . the trip from the airport runs about 1 hour and costs $ 2 . 25 . i was attending a show at UNknown place and it is a safe and quick 10 to 15 minute walk . the staff were very pleasent and helped me with some tv and remote issues when i checked in , also gave me great feedback on different restaurants and styles of chinese cooking . the rooms are kind of shabby but were kept clean by housekeeping . keep in mind the rooms are $ 75 dollars per night , you are not staying at the ritz . maybe not a great place to stay if you are on vacation but perfect for a inexpensive business trip . i plan to stay here again when i am in for my next show . the area is clean and safe , walked around every night to a different area for dinner .
we were in chicago to catch up with family and friends , unfortunately we chose lollapalooza weekend so the city and hotel were packed with people . the UNknown did a fabulous job , from the first minute we arrived . from the fast check - in to the beautifully designed room ( we especially liked the wall mounted reading lights over the bed and the tv which could adjust more than 90 degrees , so you could watch from the bed or the sofa ) to the great facilities it was a great time . the manager sent truffles to our room . our rate included $ 100 to be used for incidentals . we met friends both in the bar and on the terrace for drinks , service was outstanding . for breakfast , we skipped the lobby restaurant and went to street level to UNknown gourmet for a wonderful outdoor meal . the concierge was extremely helpful with making dinner reservations on the spur of the moment . location was terrific just south of water tower and just off michigan avenue .
our stay was for 5 nights , and there were two of us in a bunk bed room . the first room was very tiny , hardly any walking room , a / c was broken , but they were quick to move us to another room . they were very helpful and friendly , and our new room had a bit more space , which overlooked 51st street . great neighborhood with lots of good restaurants and fun bars within walking distance . there were 4 bathrooms on our floor , and we never had to wait to use them ! the showers were amazing , it was like a rain fall . they were always clean , but bring your towel from your room and shower shoes with you ! the rooftop was great ! go to the 14th floor " b " stairs , and enjoy the view ! there are cute little benches and seats for your pleasure ! overall , i would highly recommend this for those on a budget . it was comfy , cute and great location !
we just returned from a three night stay at the drury . it is a great location for a family . i traveled with four adults and two kids and the one bedroom suite was perfect . there was room for us to spread out and the two televisions meant the kids could watch what they wanted . the room was really clean and the location was great . we were able to walk to the businesses on the riverwalk as well as the market and la villita . the only negative is the construction that is going on right next door to the north of the property . our room was located right next to the work being done and it began at or before 8 a . m . every morning this negated any plans of sleeping in . the complimentary sodas and popcorn was great . the business center was great and had free internet service as well as the ability to print for free . overall it was a great experience and a place that i would recommend for families .
in all aspects , from the doorman at our arrival , to the chief concierge who saw to every detail to make our weekend truly special , to the delightful piano man at the ship's tavern , and the historical , beautiful lobby and restaurants , we found the brown palace to exceed all our hopes and expectations . our room was luxurious and unbelievably quiet with furnishings and decor that were very attractive and of the highest quality . the bed and other furniture were extremely comfortable , so we spent more time in our room than we had expected , though the central downtown denver location lends itself to endless opportunities for activities . we dined in 2 of the 3 restaurants , including the magnificent brunch at UNknown . the food and servce were exceptional . perhaps the most memorable aspect of the weekend was experiencing the extraordinary customer service from every UNknown we encountered . this is obviously a value UNknown in the very culture of the brown palace at all levels . we cannot wait to return next year !
stayed here for a conference . huge hotel . clearly still re - UNknown , fountains in lobby not operational . i arrived very early ( 10am ) and the hotel called my cell as soon as they had a room for me , which was 11 : 30 - nice ! the room itself was very nice with a great view , lovely linens , etc . my only complaint is no outlet near the bed for phone charging . i asked for a late checkout ( 2pm ) and they accommodated me immediately . all staff interactions were positive , from front desk to stowing luggage . they do have a place to print boarding passes , but no business center . there is a place on the second floor that says it is a " business center " but it is not affiliated with the hotel and charges for use . there are several restaurants in or near the hotel , and some shops , though some are gone , no doubt due to the recession . good facility for conferences .
this hotel does what it says on the label . provides accommodation in new york ! it always UNknown me when people put " room too small " , what are you doing in it that requires more than a double bed and bath ? from start to finish our 4 night stay was flawless . book in was straightforward and the room was ideal on the 29th floor with a view of the empire state building . the room was a king with a good en - suite bathroom . the hotel is a few blocks from times sq but was ideal for us as a base to all the attractions , north and south . big bonus was breakfast which had a good variety , was fresh and plenty of it . especially liked the pancake making machine : ) staff were courteous and helpful , even taking care of our bags after we checked out and had a few hours to kill before setting off to the airport . we thoroughly enjoyed our stay and would recommend this hotel to anyone .
i recently played in a amateur soccer tournament in UNknown and found the perfect location at the san diego rancho bernardo / carmel mountain ranch residence inn . located right off the highway , it was 20 minutes from sandiego airport without traffic and 30 minutes with rush hour ( tuesday at 5 : 30 ) traffic . it was 20 minutes from the fields in UNknown and 20 minutes to downtown san diego . i even did a 30 minute ride to ocean city beach to UNknown at the end of the pier . there are restaurants all around ( california pizza , outback steak house , etc . ) as well as ralph's supermarket where i got a ralph's card and loaded up on groceries for the five nights i was there . sevice was friendly and the breakfast was not needed as i made my own breakfast . the place was very family friendly . i paid with marriott points so i can not comment on the price . i would definitely stay here again if i am back this way .
we stayed here for 2 nights in august 2011 . i would list the positives as the location and the hotel's common areas . we enjoyed the outdoor pool / lounge area and the lobby bar . but when it came down to the room - it left a lot to be desired . the bathroom was teeny tiny ( so small that the bathroom door folds in half ! ) and our shower was pretty gross ( obviously had not been thoroughly cleaned in a long time ! ) the pillows that we were originally given ( feather stuffed ) were so uncomfortable that i hardly slept the first night . i had to call twice for different pillows the next day ( since they did not show up 5 hours after the first call ) . the hotel is also extremely loud ! we could actually hear the person in the next room blow his / her nose - terrible ! if you stay here - bring ear plugs ! i expected so much more from a hotel using the renaissance name .
we stayed at james at the beginning of a long trip along us , for our first time in chicago . the hotel is as the city is : elegant and full of design . everything in the room has a sense and there are a lot of nice details : stuffs to prepare a perfect martini ( yep , in the room ) , great UNknown products , a giant lcd tv , design cushions , big mirror , and more . complimentary coffee machine , and radio - cd - ipod music device . good wi - fi internet access , complimentary business center with pcs and macs ( i mean : no charge for connecting to the internet or printing documents ) , fully equipped gym . for breakfast , lunch and dinner : the hotel's restaurant is really god , but a little expensive . if i have to find something i didn't like , i can say that the lobby could be better : not the best way to welcome customers , but it is really a little thing .
i am a loyal hampton inn fan . always my first choice on a trip . everything was great at this hampton inn , the front desk at check in , the room , parking , great location . but on sunday , 10 / 11 , i jumped into the shower and at full " hot " only had luke warm water . by the end of my shower it had actually turned chilly . my daughter was next and complained that the water was cold . as we were leaving , i went by the front desk to complain . i don't think the clerk believed me , she said no one else had complained but she would mention it to maintenance . she said she was sorry but i could tell she thought i was lying . i was running late for a meeting so did not ask to speak to the manager , wish i had had more time . i will still choose hampton inn in the future , just not this hampton inn . beware of room UNknown .
we stay here while working in memphis . the employees are very friendly . i like the layout and they take care of any issues . the area near the pool can be noisy during the day . the gym is small but usable . it is nice to have a small laundry . everything in our room was fine . i noticed they upgrade over the years . especially with the new plaza nearby it is nice if you are trapped in the area . i went for nice walks in a nearby cemetary . i also easily took the UNknown bus to / from downtown memphis . whole foods , kroger , UNknown , post office , small library are all nearby also . i had a car this time but in the past they had a shuttle so i'd ask . my only con would be that the offered food is unhealthy . difficult if you are healthy , vegetarian , vegan , gluten . anything really . the coffee is good at the clubhouse . they currently have some construction .
i reserved a few rooms in june for a group going to a wedding . the hotel is lovely ( i especially liked the pool and roof deck ) , the rooms were nice enough ( although try to get one off the avenue side ) , and the air conditioning was great ( it was a really hot weekend ) , and the people that worked there were helpful , but even with all that i'm honestly not sure i'd stay at a doubletree again if i can help it . they messed up every single reservation i made , double charged me and the guests i reserved rooms for , wouldn't let them check in without my credit card even though i had arranged for them each to check themselves in and had reserved their rooms in their names . it must be their computer system because i got great service when i made the reservations and the people at the hotel were nice , too , but dealing with the reservations and the bills was a nightmare and not worth it .
stayed at the columbus motor inn in oct 08 for two nights . for those unfamiliar with san francisco , it is UNknown expensive for accommodation , so a rate UNknown $ 200 a night for a one bedroom studio was reasonably good value . this allowed my sister and her husband to share the bedroom whilst the nephew and myself had a queen bed each in the lounge area . the rooms were extremely roomy and comfortable . spotless in fact . along with a dining table big enough for the four of us and flat screen tv's in both rooms , the accommodations were surprisingly good . another bonus was the fact we were able to park on - site with access to our car anytime day or night ( not always possible in san fran ) . fishermans wharf is at most a 5 minute walk away , and a combination indian / chinese restaurant and bar is right across the street . i wouldn't hesitate to stay here again and recommend it to my fellow trip advisor members without hesitation .
this hotel was fantastic . the rooms were modern , expensive , and chic , without being overly fussy . our bathroom had a glass wall with a privacy shade and a tub that filled from the ceiling , very cool . i forgot my umbrella and they supplied me with one . the service at this hotel was amazing . my favorite thing ? the complimentary curbside UNknown ( a black cadillac town car ) chauffeured by a friendly staff member . we were there for five days however and it was only available for us once when we needed it . but that one time was great . i also particularly enjoyed that there was always an elevator waiting for us in the lobby when we got in for the evening drawbacks , there is no easy hotel to airport transportation besides a taxi which runs between 32 - 40 dollars . a shuttle service would have been very nice . they also don't mention anywhere online that this rather expensive hotel is right next door to a 24 hour sex shop .
our suite - style room was spacious & well - furnished and included a microwave & fridge . check - in was fast & efficient and the receptionist was able to accommodate my request for a upper - floor , logan circle - view room . the view was spectacular . the location is perfect for exploring philly , if you don't mind a lot of ( flat ) walking . it is located in proximity to the historic liberty bell attractions , rittenhouse square shops , and the art museum , franklin UNknown , & public library . the included breakfast offers a nice selection & was replenished throughout the duration of the breakfast hours . additional seating is available downstairs . the manager's reception was great the first night ( veggies & dip , fresh pretzels , hummus & UNknown ) , but disappointing the second evening ( chip & salsa ) . only complaint - elevators can be slow & layout is confusing . parking in the underground lot immediately behind the hotel is slightly cheaper & still convenient & safe .
positive : convenient location , outside of town , but close to shopping and food . housekeeping was excellent . working washer and dryer . UNknown : pool was freezing and UNknown , hot tub was not in working order , printer in business center broken , 3 of 4 fitness machines unstable , dog feces greeted us upon arrival , front desk seemed not too concerned about it . asked if we could swim at an indoor pool . i was told that one la quinta had an indoor pool , but we were not UNknown guests there so we could not swim in it . i asked if they would call since their pool was freezing and the hot tub was not working . i was told , no , that is just the way it is . did not get any assistance from the day time front desk staff . the evening staff was better to deal with . very unhappy with stay . room was comfortable , limited tv channels , no dvd and could hear conversations in next room .
this hotel is in a great location - 1 / 2 a block from macy's , down the block and around the corner from the empire state building , and just steps from the subway ! the lobby is air conditioned and has complimentary coffee . the staff are very friendly . the elevator and hallways are hot ( it was july ) but not a problem as we didn't spend any length of time in them . the room was spacious with a big walk in closet , decent size renovated bathroom , comfortable beds , and a flat screen tv . the air conditioner worked well but was noisy . better than be hot ! complimentary continental breakfast was served every morning in brendan's , the restaurant connected to the lobby . the only protein was boiled eggs but everything available tasted fine . you could order a hot breakfast if you wanted . tip : brendan's is a fantastic place for supper ! the prawns are to die for ! we had an absolutely fantastic trip and would stay here again !
i was impressed by this small hotel . i was stuck in san francisco due to hurricane sandy and ended up staying here for 4 nights . the staff was wonderful and accommodating when i asked to switch rooms due to loud people next door . there is filtered water on each floor which is a big plus as a traveler - i'm always looking for water at hotels to fill up my UNknown for sightseeing . there are also complimentary coffee / tea , snacks and drinks . since this is a business hotel , the snacks and drinks are available during the weekday . snacks includes dried fruits , nuts , soda , fresh fruits and snack bars . location was awesome for sightseeing . very close to the ferry building , chinatown , train and bus stations . we walked to the ferry building each morning . we also stayed at the hyatt , nice beds , but water and snacks are a plus when traveling . i would prefer to stay here over the hyatt due to the amenities available .
our experience at the amalfi was a home run . the check in went very smoothly even though we were early so we had a greater part of the day to tour . the room was very plush and clean with the necessary extras in the bathroom . we enjoyed the morning continental breakfast on each floor each day which you could get in your bathrobe . no , it was not bacon and eggs but for a few days is was great - fruit , coffee , tea , and all kinds of muffins and pastries . we especially UNknown complimentary cocktail party each evening . we met some very nice people and enjoyed the conversations with them . of course the cocktails and the wonderful appetizers were an added welcomed feature . we can not say enough about the hotel and the superb experience we had in the city of chicago . cannot wait to go back . harry UNknown restaurant across the street from the hotel was a great find . the steak and atmosphere proved to be another great find .
my wife and i stayed at the edison sept 10 - 15 2012 . had a few concerns having read some negative feedback on the hotel but we needn't have worried . yes the rooms are on the small side , as is the bathroom but this is times square where space is at a premium . we have previously stayed in the paramount on times square and the edison knocks spots off that , we have also stayed at the doubletree on lexington which is nice and the roms are much bigger but i felt we were too far out , there were no bars near and we were having to pay for taxi's all the while . on a city break all my wife and i look for is a nice clean hotel , clean bedding and fresh towels in a great location as we only use it as a base for a pit stop and to sleep - and the edison meets all these requirements , so if you are like minded have no worries if you've booked or about to .
only stayed here for one night but we had a great time . we arrived a bit before check in time but our room was ready . the room was spotless ! small but very well appointed and very comfortable . bathroom was immaculate and bright . great water pressure in the shower and no issues with water temperature . the hotel was busy yet i heard no noise in the hall or from the elevator which was near our door . staff were all very friendly and let me bang away on the chimes they have displayed on the front desk . excellent location ( we saw lend me a UNknown at music box theater - highly recommend this show ) . the bed was so divine i did not want to get out of it . frette sheets and towels . nice robes too . my only regret was not having time to sample the restaurant at the hotel which i will do on my next visit . thanks for a great trip ! hope to see you again soon ! susan thomas
we went to new york city in december just before christmas for a weekend to do some shopping . we had a free night through out bank at the hotel . we had some reservations trouble while checking in , however the desk agent worked hard and was able to help us and comp'd breakfast the next morning , which we were very appreciative of . the hotel is in a great location , near the subway and not too far from many attractions . as stated in previous reviews , the rooms are pretty small , but they are UNknown . the flatscreen tv was nice and i couldn't hear anything in the hallways ( the stereotypical nyc sirens however i could hear ) . the breakfast ( a $ 25 / person value ) was a joke . i get free breakfasts at holiday inn UNknown that are similar . but it was free , so i don't complain . parking at the ramp next door wasn't too expensive and overall we had a great say in manhattan and would stay again .
the hotel looks like an aging grande dame , somewhat in need of an update or a nip and tuck here and there , but it makes up in courtesy and friendliness of the staff . off orbitz , we got the hotel for 125 bucks a night which i thought was a good deal . the elevator is a tad small . we had a room on the 16th floor with no view unfortunately , though sizable and clean . i had to call twice for a coffee cup one morning but otherwise the service is attentive and friendly . the italian restaurant off the lobby is well - regarded , i am told - i am not into italian at the moment , so we did not try it . there is a nice upscale bistro across the street which is always full and difficult to get a table at . a starbucks is also across the street . the hotel is two blocks from the magnificent mile and three blocks to lakeshore drive . i think this hotel is good value .
i stayed here over the thanksgiving holiday while visiting family in the area . the hotel was decent , rooms were of average size , clean , and the staff at the front desk was very friendly . they accommodated our family , as we had reserved 5 rooms , and they made sure to put all of them next to each other . my complaints would be the area of the hotel . it is not easily visible from the street , gets very dark and is next to the woods . our car was broken into the night before we left , and im sure the dark secluded are helped that . also , the walls are very thin so you can easily hear people above , below and on either side of your room . this included the kids that were running up and down the hallways all night . the beds were terrible . they felt like concrete and i had to take tylenol for back every morning . the tvs were also very old and need to be replaced .
the location is like it says right at city center . lots of shopping as i discovered this stay and many eating places close by . even the rooms along the street aren't too bad if you have a room on a higher floor . the view was excellent from the 15th floor . impressive buildings all around . despite the place being very busy they got to me right away . the workout room is cramped and by far not the best . good machines but not many choices . the pool is a " kiddie " pool . about UNknown , not good for laps at all . there might be one but i could not find a hot tub . yes folks the cookies here are probably some of the best in the doubletree system , they are soft , kinda thick and not dried out . i would recommend it if you needed a convenient place downtown , close to everything and didn't mind the price . if you find this helpful make sure you mark it so . thanks UNknown
for san diego this motel gives you good value for money . its clean , the rooms have fridges , it provides a little breakfast ( if it hasn't run out ! ) and is convenient for sea world ( 5 minutes drive away ) and the interstate ( just off UNknown ) . it also has a reasonable sized pool . the area has quite a few restaurants nearby . the only downside wasa very UNknown man who checked us in . even though it said 3pm check in and we were there at 3 . 10pm he got UNknown with everyone in the line and just said he was not checking anyone in until 4pm . i think he was a little stressed as he had been let down by the cleaning staff and others who worked there , however he shouldn't have taken it out on us ! we had just had a long drive from palm springs . when we returned at just after 4 he was very cheerful pleasant and polite so i guess something really had upset him earlier
arrived at the hotel beacon to a nicely presented lobby and a quick check in . our room was on the 16th floor which had been refurbished ( they started at the top of the hotel and are working down , it should be finished by the end of aug ) and was nicely presented with twin beds , kitchenette , bathroom , flat screen tv with tons of channels and wireless internet available at $ 9 . 95 for 24 hours . its a great location with a good cafe next door ( some of our party ate there a few times ) , a starbucks on the corner , the fairway market opposite ( google it ) and central park is only a few blocks away . the hotel is on 75th and on UNknown is the subway station which can get you to times square in less than 10 mins , and only costs $ 7 . 50 for the day ( you can buy the vouchers at the hotel desk ) . overall a good place to stay in nyc .
be warned if you're on foot ! there is serious hill climbing involved in getting to this beautiful hotel ! take a cable car or taxi ! do not be as foolish / adventurous ( ! ) as us ! the hotel is located in the beautiful nob hill area and we had a really lovely stay in san francisco . the only annoying aspect was that while we had a corner room , there was a connecting door to another room ( which was of course locked ) but , notwithstanding the closed door , it was quite noisy and sometimes you felt like the people in the next room were in your room it was so loud . that said , when you're out and about exploring all day , you tend to be quite exhausted and sleeping was not an issue . i would recommend this hotel , maybe just ask for a room that doesn't have an adjoining room ! top of the mark , while a little pricey , provides beautiful views of the city on a clear day !
i realize that some are looking for a less expensive hotel to stay at in a relatively expensive hotel market . but , for your own sake , keep on looking past the kona kai . the rooms were run down , the area is not very good ( nothing to walk to ) , and the staff were less than enthusiastic about receiving us . actually , we were ok staying there because they had a complementary shuttle service from the airport , which they said ran from 5am till 11pm . when i called them at 9 : 30pm for my shuttle , they told me that it was a slow night , so they sent their driver home . and that i'd need to take a taxi at my expense . i finally persuaded the manager to cover the cost of the taxi . even though checkout was later , i got out of there at 8am . i couldn't wait to leave . i know their price is lower . just know that you'll be getting what you pay for .
stayed here for 6 days with family our overall experience of ny was out of this world wonderful city and the most friendly people on earth and probably beyond ! complemented fully by the friendly service at this well run hotel in midtown walking distance to everything subway close by . reception very friendly and helpful porters also baggage storage taxi service from front desk if needed directions with maps provided for trips to all the sights . rooms cleaned daily we were 4 to a room but spent the minimum time there so not a problem with space , if your looking for a place to lounge about then not here but then not ny either too much to do so little time . ear plugs available at local drug store are a good idea as we at least were unused to the night time street noise by night 3 - 4 we were ok , we didn't eat in the hotel but explored the many fine places to eat locally " ellen's stardust diner " is a must . i'll be back .
my husband and i stayed at candlewood suites from a monday to a thursday morning . it was an easy trip from the airport to the hotel . the directions and the map provided on the web site were very clear . the hotel was clean and inviting . the kitchen area : stove , fridge , sink were spotless . the little corner store in the lobby offered drinks , snacks and milk . although , i did not use the pool , it looked very nice . the gym had several pieces of cardio equipment and a universal gym type set up . my husband took a two day course 15 miles north of the hotel on hwy 281 . it was very easy to exit the hotel and return each day . there were several restaurants near by in all price ranges . an heb was just across the highway . i would definitely stay here again . i have communicated the great experience to the course sponsors in hopes that they will recommend this location to those taking their course .
just returned from a 5 day break at the drake . ( 13th - 18th march 04 ) we had a wonderful time . the accommodation was lovely - we had a superior view of lake michigan and the gold coast which was really beautiful . the general hotel appearance was like something from the 1920's . sumptuous , with lots of attention to details ( like a huge fresh flower display in the magnificent lobby , harpist in the cafe etc ) . also , the staff at check - in and in the restaurants and bars ( not to forget the room - cleaners ) were friendly and efficient . it's location ( right on the magnificent mile ) couldn't be faulted - no wonder so many film - stars and royalty stay there ! we would recommend this hotel to anyone who wants a stylish hotel with a glamorous past . also , i'd like to thank british airways for a super flight out and back and also thanks for the upgrade ! super flight , super hotel , super holiday .
i live in san antonio & stayed here to attend an event & not have to drive home after drinking . so when i got up early ( 3 am ) i decided to head home . however their system was down & they could't check me out . i had to wait over 1 / 2 hour for them to track down the person delivering the bills to the rooms . they never did find him & i left without UNknown my bill . normally this wouldn't be a problem because it would be on a credit card . but this time i had used a gift card & there was $ left on it . i wanted to get my new gift card . they did mail it to me within a couple days & were very apologetic about the problem . one other thing , the parking lot is quite a way from the hotel . i was a bit surprised they didn't offer to walk me to my car because of the time , my UNknown , and my age .
i stayed one night at this hotel because i had to wake up early in the morning for an event held there ( i live about an hour south and didn't want to risk sitting in traffic in the morning ) . everything about the hotel is pretty average - not shabby but not spectacular either . the restaurants inside looked good , but all i had was a croissant and coffee in the morning , which tasted pretty standard . other than the airport , the surrounding area is a bit sketchy ( there's a nude bar two doors down - enough said , eh ? ) and definitely not safe to walk around at night , especially if you're traveling with young kids . i would recommend this hotel only for those who just need to spend the night to catch an early flight or if you're attending a meeting in the hotel ( convenience factor ) . otherwise , if you're purely vacationing from out of town , there are plenty of other nicer hotels in better locations to choose from .
stayed this past weekend under a group rate and i can only guess they put aside the smallest rooms for this group rate . this was without a doubt the smallest room i have ever seen in a hotel . i also never got the heat to work . the check in was interesting . while waiting my turn to check in , i was number 3 in a line , a woman walked by asking if everybody was being helped . as i was saying no , she continued walking by , never to return . classic ! a positive is the great midtown location . i was on the 12th floor and did not find traffic noise to be an issue . i had a so - so breakfast in the dining room . ordered an omelet and toast . the toast came dry and i had to flag a server to get butter and jam delivered . although i understand city center hotels generally have smaller rooms , i will most likely try another hotel in my next trip to nyc .
stayed at the hotel before our cruise to alaska . hotel deca is one of a few hotels in seattle that offer parking and shuttle service to the ship ( which takes about 1 / 2 hour ) . unfortunately , they do not offer a return shuttle from the ship . we shared a taxi ride back to the hotel with a nice couple who rode in the shuttle with us to the UNknown . although not in a great neighborhood , the hotel itself is lovely . upon arrival , we were upgraded to a high floor corner room with fantastic views . a nice continental breakfast was included in the package price . the room was very large with comfortable bedding - bathroom was small but very nice with shower and bathtub . the free shuttle to downtown seattle was a nice surprise . we were unable to book a return trip on the shuttle , but were given good instructions for a bus ride back . overall , i would definitely stay here again and recommend it to my friends .
we stayed at the hotel contessa the first weekend in december . it is ideally located at a quieter section of the riverwalk right next door to the westin . this beautifully designed hotel has a wonderful patio area along side the river . we enjoyed cocktails after dinner and listened to the spanish influenced guitarist performing in the cork lounge . enjoy this hotel now , because when word gets out , it is going to be the most popular hotel along the river . the rooms are large and nicely decorated . the hotel staff was well trained and very attentive . my only word of caution : if you like to turn in before 11 : 00pm make sure you tell the desk that you don't want a room facing the atrium / bar area . the music travels and it could be quite loud in your room . if they want to be a 5 star hotel , they need to offer guests airport transportation . overall , i would say this is probably the best hotel on the riverwalk .
hi , i don't usually do this , write reviews , unless the service is particularly poor , but had to write and tell you that my husband and i and had a wonderful experience at the best western boston , inn at longwood . my husband and travel quite a bit and we were in town for a red sox game ; my husband is a die - hard fan . from the moment we arrived till we left , the staff were friendly , professional and made us feel very special and the bonus - the hotel is really close to fenway park . again , i think we are quick to comment on our bad travel experiences , and neglect to comment on the positive ones . as i said , we travel quite a bit and both my husband and i give kudos to the staff , our comfortable room and the extras the staff did to accommodate us . being UNknown , we truly got a southern welcome at best western boston , inn at longwood . thank you .
chicago is my hometown so when choosing a hotel there i need to be close to transport and away from tourists . this hotel fits the bill to a tee ! it's located on a quiet residential street that's very close to the red line train and several key bus routes . you're about the same distance from the loop ( i . e . business ) and north / west sides ( i . e . fun ) . the room i got was a king with a little sitting area which was very helpful for work . the bed was comfy cozy , as was the armchair . i appreciated the bright colors and general decor , as well as the aveda toiletries . only minor complaint was the bathroom vent that sounded like a jet engine while the accompanying light was pretty dim . the wifi in the hotel was stellar ! it's free and strong throughout the building . and the staff is friendly and competent . all in all very comfy hotel at an excellent price for the area !
just returned from a four day trip to ny staying at the metro hotel on west 35th street . opted for this hotel after reading reviews on this site and was not disappointed . a clean warm basic hotel ; more than adequate as a base from which to explore ny . the staff on reception deserve special mention ; they were very knowledgeable and couldn't do enough to help with suggestions about the best way to visit all the places of interest and could even supply tickets for most places . we bought our tickets for the empire state building from them . the free morning breakfast of muffins , bagels and danish pastries and the 24hour free tea and coffee proved very useful as we UNknown back to the hotel to dump shopping before venturing out again . we had a great time and have no complaints either of the hotel or new york . it was all a wonderful experience but the highlight had to be ice - skating late on friday night at the rockefeller centre . what an atmosphere !
this hotel is perfect for the people who do not want super luxury and plan to only sleep , bathe , and relax a bit in the room . our room was clean , comfy , and the hotel overall was beautiful and clean . the free internet cafe downstairs was a huge plus , the rooftop bar was awesome , and the free breakfast was great and had plenty to choose from . i dont know why people are so UNknown on here about this hotel ! ? my husband and i loved it , besides we were out and about on the city for 14 - 16 hours a day and didnt even think about the hotel room until we needed sleep . i say go for it . its a perfect location across from madison sq gardens and penn station . we walked to times sq from our hotel and the empire state bldg is literally around the corner . this hotel is in korea town . very quaint and cute . basically just one street block . great food too !
stayed here for a conference and i loved it ! unlike many other conference hotels ive been too this place is beautiful ! indeed it was a resort . upon entering the lobby was spacious , tall ceilings , clean and wonderful UNknown staff . the outdoor gardens are amazing ! there are two pools ; one for adults and the other for kids with a water park . i stayed in a king size room and it was very big . nice patio w / a wonderful view . very romantic place for couples , but also family friendly . the other side of the hotel is made for conferences and has all the amenities you would need . they have screens all around so you can check your conference schedule and other activities going on . it's about a 40 min drive to downtown , $ 70 cab fare . cibolo moon had very tasty hearty food . i had the bbq meatloaf which was huge and very yummy ! the UNknown was delicious also . i would certainly stay here again .
hadn't been to ny in 25 years and had no idea where to stay , but was on a budget and wanted soho area . the gem was truly a " gem " and helped make our 4 days in ny fabulous ! the staff was very helpful , printing out maps for us , giving directions , suggestions , etc . of course the room small , but we expected that , and very clean . my only " complaint " is that the wireless internet did not always work . bathroom was a decent size , and the bed and pillows were super comfortable . after pounding the pavement all day long enjoying the city , this little hotel provided a good night's sleep , and that's really all we wanted it for . if you're going to spend a lot of time in the room then you need to pay for something bigger and more luxurious for those who simply want a clean , inviting place to get ready for the day and sleep at night , the gem is perfect !
thanks to this site i discovered this gem of a hotel - which seems to be missing from many guidebooks . stayed 5 nights from march 29th and had a wonderful time . the location is perfect ( we spent 1 night at the argonaut hotel on fisherman's wharf and although that hotel was also v . good , i much prefer the location of this one ) . the room & bathroom are generously sized with comfortable beds and all of the staff were courteous . the complimentary continental style breakfast was a perfect start to the day and cooked items were available on request for an additional charge . the public areas of the hotel are fairly small - a small reception lobby and a restaurant / bar area with limited seating but this hardly matters in a boutique hotel of this size . the only negative i could muster was noise ( usually around 2am ) of garbage collection from the alley behind the hotel - even on the 7th floor this was enough to disturb sleep ! very highly recommended .
the guesthouse has an unbeatable location , one block away from the subway station at union square . the price is also unbeatable , we paid a little over 100 dollars / night for our room . we had a single room with a rollaway bed ( with shared bathroom ) . before our trip we were a bit sceptical about the rollaway bed , but it was okay . but the beds have plastic covers on their UNknown , which is a bit tacky . the room is small and pretty basic , but had ac and cable tv . they clean the rooms three times a week and we got fresh towels each time . the shared toilets and showers were a bit dated , but clean . the guesthouse has two computers with free internet on them , which is a great bonus , so you can easily check your email . they have coffee in the lobby for UNknown / cup and a vending machine in the basement for cool drinks and snacks . we would definitely stay here again !
my husband and i recently picked the crowne plaza columbus downtown because of it's location and proximity to the arena district . we were very pleased that everything we wanted to do was within reasonable walking distance of the hotel . our room was reasonably priced and we were pleasantly surprised at how nice it was ! but the most important thing to me when staying at a hotel is the quality of the beds . i dread hotel stays because i rarely get a good night's sleep . the beds are usually too hard and the linens are often rough . we plopped on the bed when we got there and instantly got a 2 hour nap in and we both slept through the night later that evening . i will choose this hotel again next time i am in columbus because of the comfort of the bed , the quality of room you get for the price , the convenience of a cafe and bar downstairs , an excellent workout room and the proximity to everything downtown . i definitely recommend it !
have recently enjoyed a 4 night break at the omni parker boston . we were lucky to have had a corner room which was actually quite spacious for a standard UNknown room and the bed well . ! you had to take a running jump at to get in , it was very comfy and cosy with lovely quality linen . the bathroom was a little tired , however it was very clean . the bars in the omni were quite expensive and the food was perhaps above average . the highlight of our stay was the great location for the whale watching trip ( spectacular ) most certainly not to be missed . so very sad though that due to the pollution caused of us humans that they are in danger ! we also took the ferry from the harbour to UNknown which is so very beautiful with it's UNknown houses and quality ecclectic shops . would loved to have had our stay there and it's much cheaper , still the omni is lovely and found the staff very willing and well mannered .
we stayed one night at this hotel during a 100 degree heat wave . we made excellent use of the outdoor pool . one of the best reasons to stay at this hotel is the outdoor amenities . there is a rooftop running track , a very large seating area , and a rooftop pool with plenty of chairs to lounge on . seriously , relaxing by the pool surrounded by skyscrapers , with views of millennium park one way , and the lake the other - that was pretty cool . i had a " naturally cool " room which was gorgeous . they are not huge , but are set up well . the area the hotel is in is a little quieter at night than further north on magnificent mile , but we were looking to stay in a different area . the gym is humongous , and the best hotel gym we have ever seen . they were very generous with a late check out time . i plan on staying there again - particularly when it is warm out !
last weekend i UNknown three nights in this hotel . i should read this reviews before checking in . apparently they don't have housekeeping every day in every room . i was lucky and they made my bed once . i also had the privilege of hot water , my boss was in the next room and she had only cold water for three days . the lobby is nice , but once you get into the elevator everything turns creepy . the breakfast cost $ 10 dollars and they just offer coffee , melon and UNknown eggs with toast . the last day i only wanted a coffee and the guy in the restaurant was very rude and told me that the coffee will cost me 10 dollars . he asked me for a voucher . i told him that i would prefer to have my coffee elsewhere , but in my credit card they charge me $ 30 dollars for three breakfast and i only had two . very poor service . i paid $ 390 for a super 8 type hotel .
i just stayed at the mayflower july 13 & 14 , on a weekend getaway with my daughter . i have to admit the hotel was beautiful and clean , but i do have a complaint . this " luxury " hotel didnt have water in our room ! i'm not sure if it was just our floor , but i definitely didnt expect that . we had to use water bottles to brush our teeth ! ugh . the restaurant in the hotel is pretty pricey , so we just walked to the panera bread down the street . the best thing about this hotel was it's location . it was walking to distance to the white house ! i also noticed there's not many hotels in this area , so i'm glad i chose this one . the staff was very friendly . shoot , they better be , considering the water issue ! lol . if i had to stay there again , yes , i would . but i would definitely call and make sure they have water this time .
we had a really good stay . i was a little leary after asking for a refrigerator and microwave in our room and being placed in two rooms that didn't have both , but it was UNknown very quickly for our third on the same floor . the staff is very accomodating . each time we called and said , no , this room doesn't have both , they tried to remedy it right away . the third time was a charm and was done very quickly and were very nice about it . the room was comfortable . the bed was a little hard for my taste but the pillows were very fluffy . we had originally asked for a king smoking room and ended up with a double queen , but it worked out great because we had more room to sort through our stuff that was packed and during for the trip . the wireless hookups in our room worked good for my hubby's laptop internet access for work related stuff , as well as last minute site seeing information websites .
we were able to check in a little early and were off to seaworld in minutes . the shuttle is just first come first served , so we did have to wait awhile to be picked up when seaworld closed for the day . it is about 4 minutes from door to door by car . the kids loved that they could see one of the roller coasters from our window . the room and the common areas in the hotel were very clean and well maintained . the pool was also clean and there were plenty of towels available right next to it . the front desk staff were pleasant and helpful . the breakfast was full of variety and better that what you would expect for free . it included meat , eggs , waffles , biscuits and gravy , yogurt , three kinds of juice , coffee , milk , fresh fruit , and more . the whole family , and we are picky , found plenty to eat . if we come back to seaworld we will stay here again .
this is a nice inexpensive motel surprisingly close to universal studios . it is right off ventura blvd . which can be a bit noisy at night sometimes . the room was clean , the beds comfortable and the normal small refrig and in room coffee maker . my only complaint is the bathroom - it was clean , but the sink was built for some one 6 ft . 1 , and the toilet bowl for some one 5 ft . 1 . when i shave the sink in all most all motels comes up to my waist here it came up to just under my chest . another nice touch is it has guest self serve laundry facilities . the free continental breakfast is a bit thin but you can make your own belgian waffles , saves on the cost of breakfast . the staff is friendly and helpful . parking is free but if you have a large vehicle ( i have a ford UNknown crew cab long bed ) parking can be a challenge otherwise you should have no problem .
UNknown we stayed in park 79 hotel for 8 nights . room was tiny , dark , very noisy and not clean . no wifi internet acces in the room , just at the lobby and it wasnt high - speed internet as they wrote at their web site . bed was against the wall if you want to get out of bed you have to jump over to other side . double bed was very small - i think it was single bed - and not comfy . air conditioner in the room was horrible , it was making a lot of noise so even room was cold at nights not possible turn on it . shared toilet and bathroom was always clean . there are two shared bathroom in each floor used by just two rooms . location was good , safe neighborhood even after the midnight , close to museum of natural history and central park . staff was so - so . but i do not recommend to stay at park 79 . there were so much nicer hotels UNknown .
just returned from a fantastic weekend get - away stay at the morgans hotel and had a fantastic time . we were getting a bit late on friday night , and it was no problem to call ahead to make a quick note in the reservation file . we were delighted with the room when we finally made it into the city . the city - side views had a magnificent view of the empire state bldg which was totally unexpected . the mini bar was well stocked , and the bed was incredibly comfy . the next morning we enjoyed the absolutely amazing breakfast provided . i really was blown away by the spread . i was expecting a standard danish and a poor cup of coffee . this was steps beyond . granola , fresh fruit , yogurt , bagels , juices , coffee , tea , etc . what a great way to start the day ! we also quite enjoyed being so close to madison square park . it was a great neighborhood , very centrally located . highly recommended !
this was our first trip to chicago . the monaco was fabulous . check in and check out were simple . at check - in we asked for and were given a room with a view of the river . very romantic room , good sized with beautiful decor . afternoon wine was great - wish we had been less shy and had taken advantage of chair massage they offered . concierge was great - got us reservation at the classy restaurant at john hancock building for fireworks at the last minute . location , location , location was fabulous . easy access to museums , magnificent mile , river cruises , millenium park . major sights are very walkable from hotel even with blisters from ill - fitting shoes or easily accessible by bus from michigan avenue . don't miss " the bean " at millenium park . will definitely stay at other kimpton hotels - we were very impressed . although there are other terrific kimpton hotels in chicago would stay at monaco again because of the super location and river view .
i brought my son to nyc for his 18th birthday . we have stayed in a lot of different hotels in the midtown - times square areas over the years , and i always wanted to try the iroquois . when we checked in around 1 pm , our room was ready . the room itself was tiny with barely enough room to move around in , but it was clean , with a nice bathroom , and a beautiful , comfy bed . it was hot out and the a / c was great . our room was at the back of the hotel and extremely quiet . the location was good , on a quiet street but within walking distance to everything ! turndown service at night was very nice . would have liked to see fresh iced tea in the lobby but once it was empty , it didn't appear to get refilled at all . all in all , a nice small hotel with good service , would recommend for couples or singles due to the size of the rooms .
we stayed at the marrakech from 07 / 26 / 11 - 07 / 31 / 11 , the pro pictures are that pro pictures the hotel has a great location if you can get around by subway , is not a luxury hotel is not the greatest hotel in nyc but for the price i would stay there again , lots of places were to eat around , the beds were comfortable , and the a / c worked ok for the room size , bathroom was ok also , the cleaning personnel were lazy to vaccum the room daily , and were like saving money on the towels laundry and the soap , but a little complaining did fixed the problem the day that happened , overall clean , internet only at the lobby , no cable , no elevator , and the rooms are nothing like the pictures they are very regular rooms , like i said i would stay here again if i can not afford something different front desk people are friendly and UNknown was good giving directions to everywhere
i stayed at the marriott wardman park in early june for a conference . the hotel gets high marks for convenience . it's right next to a metro station , making it a great starting point for sightseeing . the national zoo is within walking distance . there are lots of cafes and restaurants in the area , too . i had a room in the renovated tower . though the bathroom was small , the room itself was nice . my room overlooked the a / c unit , so there was no traffic noise . the only real complaint i had was about signage and directions to the fitness center . the sign in the elevator and the note in the hotel directory both said the fitness center was on the second floor . i wandered around for a few minutes before i realized both were wrong . it's on the first floor . the signs need to be changed . i did not eat the food in the hotel , though i hear it's not bad . i'd stay here again .
my husband and i recently spent 3 nights at the sheraton while attending a conference . after a 60 second drive from the airport ( yes , it is that close ! ) , we checked into our room on the 9th floor . the lobby of the hotel was nice , although very busy with people attending a variety different conferences . the hallway to our room was scattered with leftover room service items . our room was small , which was fine . the bathroom was recently redone . it sadly had no place to hang towels so when finished with them , we just set them on the floor . the shower curtain smelled like mildew . all the rooms have small balconies with a view of the water or downtown but if you open the balcony door you are bombarded with sound of jets landing and taking off . the outside of the property was nice , with several pools and a walking path . all in all , it is a very average convention hotel next to the airport .
the room was incredibly clean and the staff was nice , but this is not the place to stay if you like quiet . even if you are only sharing the hotel with other courteous guests , you will hear their normal - level conversations through the walls , you will hear their televisions , their every footstep and every flush . it is a cheap motel and i'm not UNknown about a little noise , so i was ok with that during the work week . however , i made the big mistake of also staying here over a weekend when the normal guests are replaced by the drunk and obnoxious crowd . then the noise level becomes absolutely intolerable . i would never even consider this hotel again for a visit including a friday or saturday night . i'd also like to mention the high - speed internet - it truly was high - speed . i regularly saw 9 mb / s down and 5 mb / s up . that is faster than my business - class dsl at home .
the location of this hotel is everything . virtually on union square in the middle of some of the finest high - end shopping in the world , and within easy walking distance to chinatown , it is in a terrific spot . the people working there were nice enough , and the place reasonably clean . the shower curtain in my bathroom was a bit mildewy , but i expect that they would have changed it immediately if i had called housekeeping . i don't know about how the price compares to other similar hotels in the neighborhood , but it is probably in line . i was there for a couple nights for a conference , and the beds were comfortable and the room was not too noisy on the 9th floor . someone on the 5th floor said that he heard the traffic at night . i wouldn't mind staying there again myself if someone else were paying for it , but the smaller , more intimate , hotels within a few blocks are much less expensive for very nice accommodations .
we spent 3 nights at the omni berkshire over labor day weekend . i spent a considerable amount of time researching nyc hotels prior to booking there , and we were not disappointed . the room was large , attractively furnished , very clean , and fairly quiet ( some hall noise but none from outside on the 15th floor ) , with a comfy bed and pretty bathroom . the location was extremely convenient and central . we also registered for the select guest program prior to our stay and did receive complimentary beverages and newspaper every morning as well as a 5 pm checkout . i agree with previous reviewers that the upgrade coupon is wasted / unnecessary at this location . the only ( minor ) negatives i could list are the following : wood furniture showed a fair amount of wear and tear ; housekeeping did not remove trash ( ie . empty takeout containers , dirty glassware from bar downstairs ) from the room . overall , we were very pleased with our stay here and would happily return .
always have liked this hotel , and have had about six previous stays , but seemed to not be operating on all cylinders as in the past . we were a little to close to the elevator , and although we complained on second day , we never heard anything further , and we were there for six nights . there is a loud bell every time hat elevator comes to floor . hotel is also getting somewhat shabby chic for a facility that books itself as luxury , with prices to match . we had mold on the ceiling of our shower , which the staff attempted to remove at our request , and there was caulking coming off from around tiles . paint was peeling , and wallpaper coming off . bedding is very comfortable . facility is very clean , and housekeeping reliable . but , would have liked a turndown service in the evening , with usual mint on pillow . location is very convenient and quiet , and near to theatre , restaurants , subways , and taxi availability .
the hotel is in a very good location for access to venice beach . when we checked in , reception told us that they had just finished renovating and that we were the first to stay in our room . the renovation generally looked very good , which i guess could be described as a neutral - modern look . for a hotel in this price range it looked good . there was still some noise at the hotel with the external painters finishing off their work . it looked like they had gone by the last day of our stay though . the breakfast was continental ( bagels , toast , cereals , muffins , juice , yoghurt etc ) and all very good . breakfast is had in an internal courtyard which is pretty cute . they had cookies at reception each afternoon which was a nice touch . the staff were all very friendly and helpful . all in all , it was a good stay and a good value hotel i'd recommend to anyone wanting to stay in venice beach .
i travel to nyc several times a year for business and the helmsley park lane is my hotel of choice even though we have a generous per diem and i could stay at just about any hotel in mid - town ( i have also stayed at the london and michelangelo ) . yes , the decor is a bit dated but if you get a room on a high floor facing the park you will be so UNknown by the gorgeous view that you won't even notice . check - in and out is typically fast and efficient ; however , you do need to check the bill to ensure you weren't mistakenly charged for mini bar items you did not consume . odds are that if you stay at any hotel enough times you will eventually have a less that perfect experience but overall my time at the park lane has always been enjoyable . in fact , i am taking my grandaughter to ny next month as a high school graduation present and we will be staying at the park lane .
all of the staff at the phoenix was welcoming and helpful , and since it was our honeymoon , congratulatory ! we wanted the attached bar to be a little more laid back . it was pretty packed , and the music was thumping when we went , but i'm still glad we did . the hotel itself is very cool , and though it is a fairly old renovated motel , you can tell it was renovated very carefully . it has a great vintage atmosphere , but nothing really feels old . everything is super clean and comfortable . the bed was so luxurious ! close to the tenderloin , kind of a rough area of town , but easy to avoid . other surrounding areas are great . i appreciate that they give back to their community in an effort to improve the tenderloin and that they are UNknown green initiatives . just know that since all rooms open out to the courtyard , you'll hear any activity going on down there . all in all , we really liked it .
we stayed at this hotel for 4 nights in late march for a volleyball UNknown at the attached convention center . i have stayed at quite a few westins and was very pleased with this hotel . the rooms were very clean and the beds were wonderful . we had a great view of the city . the bathrooms are small , but nicely done . the location of this hotel is great . it was very convenient to get to the convention center , the mall , and plenty of nearby restaurants . the thing that stood out for us was how wonderful the management was when we were faced with car trouble which caused us to extend our stay . when they found out about our situation , they gave us a $ 40 room credit towards our stay there . they gave us a late check out and were very understanding of our situation . many hotels would not be this considerate . they were wonderful ! if we travel to indy again , i would definitely plan on staying here .
i stayed at the hilton times square over " hurricane irene " weekend . although i was hesitant about the planned vacation , given the poor weather UNknown , the weekend turned out to be one of the best we have had . our stay at the hilton times square was truly amazing . the staff treated us like family , setting up movies for us to watch , and making sure any single need was met or worry was settled . in particular , UNknown UNknown , " rooms division executive " was oustanding . he greeted us with such enthusiasm and made my family feel so safe , secure , and worry - free . there was truly a sense of control that i noticed here at the hotel - the staff were extremely attentive and supportive even though there was a natural disaster occurring right outside the doors . it is so nice to see a staff so dedicated to the guests during somewhat difficult times . i will definitely be coming back here to stay soon , hurricane or not !
the essex inn provided very pleasant accomodation in a good location . we were there at christmas time and the foyer was very inviting with a most pleasing cinnamon and UNknown UNknown in the air . the rooms were very clean with lovely fresh white bed linen and towels . fridge and coffee maker were available which was good . the bathroom was very clean with neutral tones and a good shower head . pictures posted on the internet were exact , no hidden UNknown . our initial room was located near the lift which was not ideal but management were more than happy to move us . a little train noise at night from the el may irritate the traveller who requires complete quiet for sleeping . pool and gym facilities good and well maintained . all staff very happy to oblige good bus service down to magnificent mile , close to many wonderful galleries and concert venues , grant park , millenium park and lots more . wouldn , t hesitate to stay again . only negative was the rather slow lifts .
located between 5th & madison avenues in midtown manhattan . my wife and i easily walked to many points of interest and access to public transportation ( buses , subway , taxis ) was convenient . this was our first trip to manhattan and we consider the omni berkshire as a major factor in the great experience we had . aside from the comfortable room several nice touches made the omni standout . the complimentary fresh apples in the lobby and fitness center were delicious . one bellman stood out as exceptional , several times he recognized my wife and me returning to the hotel and greeted us . the wake up call operator was friendly as was the UNknown we encountered on the 7th floor . as UNknown UNknown members , the coffee and newspapers we received each morning was a real treat . the bed was very comfortable ( maybe better than i have @ home ) . the concierge service was also excellent . we are looking forward to our next visit to new york and stay at the omni berkshire .
had no problems with the stratford . fabulous location , right in the heart of union square , 2 minute walk to macy's and all the great shops . cable car stop right outside the hotel entrance . perfect place to stay if no transport as fishermans wharf accessible by cable and walk to union square . stayed from 17 / 10 - 19 / 10 so for a short stay was great , breakfast was excellent , cereal , toast , fresh muffins , juice and tea & coffee . rooms are very small but fine for just sleeping and getting ready , shower good pressure and everything clean and room serviced perfectly every morning . lift is very slow but as we were on level 3 it was no problem to take the stairs rather than wait . all in all would definately reccomend this hotel to anyone travelling to san francisco , for the price the location is unbeatable and it is clean , safe and all you need . if we return to san fran would definately be booking the stratford
this is one of the few hotels in nyc with twin rooms at a reasonable rate . our room was a decent size , with two large single beds . it was clean and all the facilities were of a high standard , considering what we paid ! the bathroom was also clean and the shower was nice , with a decent pressure . we had air con , but i don't think it was very effective as the room was quite warm . the concierge was very knowledgeable , and helped us out with all our queries . you can also book tickets for attractions and shows - but we didn't do this so can't comment . the hotel is only a short walk from times square . also , the gray line bus stop is only a couple of blocks where you can get on any of their tours - i'd recommend staying here if you're doing these tours . we were two women on our own and we felt perfectly safe in the neighbourhood , even walking back late at night .
my girlfriend and i were in nyc on business and decided to try a new hotel . we decided on the hyatt 48 lex due to the exceptional modern decor and midtown east location . upon arrival , hotels . com accidentally canceled our reservation for the week , but the front desk staff make us feel welcomed and apologized for the inconvenience . they told us to hold on as they sorted out the issue . ten minutes later our reservation was UNknown and we were on our way to the room . after about thirty minutes of being in our room , we realized the room was feeling a bit warm . the hotel staff investigated and the air - conditioning was inoperable . the hotel staff quickly found us another room and apologized profusely , they ended up making our stay one of the most memorable after moving us to a two bedroom suite on the 22nd floor . thank you to the staff , clean rooms , and modern style . this is our new favorite hotel in the city .
i booked the argent on priceline for just $ 100 a night . after booking , i started reading the recent reviews and was very nervous about staying there , but it was already paid for so we tried it . i sent an email asking for a bay view room but with the price we paid i wasn't really hopeful . i received a speedy reply that they would try to meet my request . we arrived at 10 : 30 pm . even though it was late , the front desk clerk was very friendly . our room was on the 30th floor with the most amazing view of the city and the bay ! the floor to ceiling windows are just awesome ! every employee went out of their way to be helpful and friendly . the door man chatted about our day and offered to give any help we needed with directions and suggestions . i never opened a door . the bell staff was attentive and helpful though not pushy . all in all it was a wonderful stay .
4 of my friends and i stayed at this comfort inn for sep 8 - 10th 2006 . the hotel itself has undergone a major cosmetic overhaul and is much nicer than when i stayed here 10 years ago . the rooms are well appointed , clean , nothing fancy . the rooms also have extra utilities like an iron , safe , wireless UNknown internet etc . which was surprising . our stay was comfortable , the staff were friendly . they let us check - in early , and even had a valet service for our bags when we checked out so we didn't have to lug them around for our last day in manhattan . for the price ( $ 215 / night ) it was a great find and was easy on the budget . the location can't be beat . a block from the flatiron building , and in the midst of all the action . 25th street is really in the heart of manhattan so you're central to downtown , midtown , uptown , wherever . good choice .
just stayed this weekend on a birthday trip with my wife ( september 2011 ) . the staff was pleasant , and the hotel finishes were very nice . the location is fantastic . however , they are currently involved in a floor - by - floor renovation . part of this work clearly involved concrete demolition and / or drilling holes in concrete ( i am a construction professional who knows what i am hearing ) . the noise levels are intolerable while the work is going on . in the room , we literally could not hear each other talk . an afternoon nap is impossible . if you are going to be out of the hotel between 8 am and 5 pm ( 10 am to 5 pm on weekends ) , by all means stay here . if you plan on being in the room during these times , you need to stay somewhere else . i would give the property five stars other than the renovation work . call and make sure it is done before making a reservation .
i was pleasantly surprised by the colonnade hotel . yes the rooms are small , and the hallways are dark , but the current renovations of the rooms have resulted in modern - style , boutique - type amenities . ( i believe they are still renovating - we stayed on the 10th floor . ) the beds were comfortable , the sheets soft , and the furniture new . the staff are completely friendly and helpful , and the location is hard to beat - right in front of the t line and adjacent to the prudential center and newberry street shopping . the room service ( breakfast ) came quickly , the coffee hot , and the pastries delicious . brasserie jo , the restaurant in the lobby is also great for lunch . we paid a steep price ( about $ 330 per night ) since we were there during UNknown season - it's definitely worth it if you can find a hotwire deal ( as mentioned in other reviews ) . four stars because of the small rooms and bathrooms .
this was our 4th time to stay in new york and our 1st in the distrikt hotel which is by far the most impressive hotel we stayed in new york . the hotel itself is very modern and spotlessly clean . the rooms are spacious ( in comparison to other ny hotels ) , bathroom is big and a brilliant shower . i made my reservation directly with the hotel and they offered the best rate by far and they also upgraded our room after i told them we were visiting ny for a special birthday ! to be honest i can't say enough good things about the hotel . the location was ideal for us - close to times square and the port authority and UNknown nice places to eat close by . as for the staff , absolutely brilliant - in particular i would like to say thanks to chris and jennifer for helping me out with a personal problem i had - it was much appreciated . i strongly recommend this hotel and we will definitely be back - hopefully soon !
first off , let me say that i am a less than leisure travler . my wife and i like good deals and i am not a snob . which is to say i don't mind paying for nicer things if they are practical . with that said if you are looking for a nice place to stay omni fort worth is worth consideration . i booked through priceline which was the best deal available . omni wanted 159 while i was able to get 95 through priceline . upon arrival we were greeted by the valet and friendly staff . at check in the clerk was friendly and pleasent . my 2 year old son was given a bag of UNknown when we checked in . the clerk asked if it was alright to let him have it which i thought was nice . the rooms were clean with no funky smell . the showers and restroom were nice . i didn't feel like i had to run around and disinfect everything . we stayed for 2 nights and would definantly book again .
i've stayed at the westin a few times and each time it gets worse . it is definetely not worth the asking price . if you can book through priceline or some other site , then it's great , but it's not worth anything over $ 120 a night . at first glance , it makes you feel like you are in luxery , but if you look close , it's not nicer than any other hotel . the staff was very friendly and let us check in early , but the rooms are very small . the beds were comfortable , but the furnature was stained and hard . not what you would expect for paying such a high price . i would stay at the westin again , but not for anything over $ 100 . we booked through priceline and was excited to get the westin . but after staying there we were happy that we didn't pay more for the room . overall , it's still a nice hotel . very convient , but not worth a lot of money .
this is a great , little , boutique hotel in a fantastic location ( near subway , shops , restaurants , theater , times square , central park etc ) . the rooms are small and most don't have a view but they are beautifully appointed with every amenity necessary ( including free wireless ) . the entire staff was welcoming and helpful . victoria ( front desk ) was amazing , friendly , informative , and resourceful ; better than any big hotel concierge i've ever encountered . there is a lovely lounge on the second floor where fresh fruit , coffee / tea , and cold water are available 24 hrs a day . i visit nyc frequently and will definitely be back .
first the good points . very good staff , room is large , clean and well appointed , great bathroom , hotel location is great , parking right across street in garage . easy to get to , right off of exit 22 on route 90 . here are my negatives . do not stay on the 2nd floor or in the front of this hotel for that matter if you need quiet . major construction going on right on the street . very loud and guaranteed to wake you up ! also our tv did not work , kept " losing signal " . i would stay here agin if i was guaranteed a different section of the hotel away from the construction zone .
my partner and i stayed here for a week in may after a week in vegas and although of course it wasn't as spectacular as vegas hotels it was still a pleasant place to stay . the reception staff were very efficient and helpful although i did feel the concierge could have been more helpful . the room was clean , large and the beds nice and comfy and the hotel was positioned nicely on fisherman's wharf . the only real downside was that there is no bar or restaurant to relax in and as most places on the wharf closed at 10 or earlier we had nothing else to do but go to bed but would stay here again and recommend to fellow travellers .
i stay in seattle once a month for business and will bend over backwards to stay at the pan pacific . it has everything a person needs . big clean rooms , functional and spacious work stations , huge bathrooms , great beds . all of the resources on would need to be comfortable - whole foods downstairs , a kinkos , starbucks , and adjoining gym . quite rooms . i can't say much more . on a map it looks like it might be a few blocks away from downtown but honestly it takes 3 - 5 minutes to walk to nordstrom , etc . on future trips i am going to bring my spouse so she can enjoy the hotel with me .
